<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/xsl"
        href="http://docbook.sourceforge.net/release/xsl/current/manpages/docbook.xsl"?>

<!--;TMS.apim#MAN(user);UMS.apim#CPP(user);TMS.apim#CPP(user);UMS.apim#PYTHON(user);TMS.apim#PYTHON(user) -->
<book label="UMS.apim#MAN(user);TMS.apim#MAN(user);FMS.apim#MAN(user);IMS.apim#MAN(user);UMS.apim#CPP(user);TMS.apim#CPP(user);FMS.apim#CPP(user);IMS.apim#CPP(user);UMS.apim#PYTHON(user);TMS.apim#PYTHON(user);FMS.apim#PYTHON(user);IMS.apim#PYTHON(user)" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <info>
    <title>VISHNU Quick Start Guide</title>
    <productname>VISHNU</productname>
    <releaseinfo>1.3</releaseinfo>
    <date>June 27, 2012</date>
    <author>
      <personname><firstname>Eugène</firstname><surname>Pamba Capo-Chichi</surname></personname>
    </author>
   
    <title> VISHNU Quick Start</title>
    
    <revhistory>
      <revision>
	<revnumber>1</revnumber>
	<date>June 27, 2012</date>
	<authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
	<revdescription>
	  <para> First version of the quick start guide.</para></revdescription>
      </revision>
    
  </revhistory>

    <copyright>
      <year>2012</year>
      <holder>SysFera SA</holder>
    </copyright>
    <legalnotice>
      <para>These manual pages are provided under the following conditions:</para>
      <para>Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:</para>
      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.</para>
        </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
      <para>This software is governed by the CECILL licence under French law and
	abiding by the rules of distribution of free software.  You can  use, 
	modify and/ or redistribute the software under the terms of the CeCILL
	license as circulated by CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the following URL
	&quot;http://www.cecill.info&quot;.</para>
      <para>As a counterpart to the access to the source code and  rights to copy,
	modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
	with a limited warranty  and the software's author,  the holder of the
	economic rights,  and the successive licensors  have only  limited
	liability.</para>
      <para>In this respect, the user's attention is drawn to the risks associated
	with loading,  using,  modifying and/or developing or reproducing the
	software by the user in light of its specific status of free software,
	that may mean  that it is complicated to manipulate,  and  that  also
	therefore means  that it is reserved for developers  and  experienced
	professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are therefore
	encouraged to load and test the software's suitability as regards their
	requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems and/or 
	data to be ensured and,  more generally, to use and operate it in the 
	same conditions as regards security.</para>
    </legalnotice>
  </info>
  
  
  <chapter>
    <title> Document presentation</title>
    <section>
      <title>Document objectives</title>
      <para>
	This document is a quick start guide of VISHNU software for users. The main objective of this document is to describe 
	the user account configuration procedure.
      </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Document structure</title>
      <itemizedlist>
	<listitem>
          <para>Chapter 1 presents the document structure.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Chapter 2 describes the user account configuration in VISHNU.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    
    <!--<section>
      <title>References</title>
      <para><itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para>[D1.1b]: VISHNU "Spécifications techniques des besoins"</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>[DIETMAN]: DIET User's Manual v2.8 (available with the DIET distribution at http://graal.ens-lyon.fr/~diet)</para>
          </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>[VISHNU_API] VISHNU API : Document that contain the VISHNU API description and all the datatypes used..</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist></para>
    </section> -->
    
  </chapter>
  
  <!-- PART 1 : VISHNU Presentation -->
  <chapter>
    <title> User account configuration </title>
    <para>
      The VISHNU software is a part of SysFera-DS which is an open-source middleware developped by SysFera. VISHNU is primarly designed to facilitate the access to high-performance computing resources by providing the following services:
      <itemizedlist>
	<listitem>
	  <para>User management services (UMS): authentication and session management.</para>
	</listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Information management services (IMS): monitoring and control services.</para>
	</listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para>Tasks management services (TMS): submission of tasks (jobs) on computing resources.</para>
	</listitem>
	<listitem>
	  <para>File management services (FMS): display and transfer of files between storage resources.</para>
	</listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <para>
      The user account configuration is provided by the User Management Services.
    </para>
       	
	<section>
	  <title> User account creation </title>
	  <para>
	    The first step to access VISHNU is to request a new account to a VISHNU administrator. The only information required to create a new account is your full name and email address. You will automatically receive an email containing your userId and password.
	    When a new user account is added on VISHNU, it is possible for the user to define the mapping of her/his UNIX account by using the VISHNU local user configuration notion.
	  </para>
	</section>
		
	  <section>
	    <title> Local user configuration</title>
	    <para>  
	      To access a UNIX account on a specific machine defined on VISHNU, the user must create a local user configuration by using the 
	      <emphasis role = "bold">vishnu_add_local_account</emphasis> command. The <emphasis role = "bold">vishnu_list_machines</emphasis> command
	      gives information about the machines in which a local user configuration can be created or where a local user configuration has already been created. The information 
	      required to create a new local user configuration are: the userId, the machineId, the login of the UNIX account on the specified machine,
	      the absolute path to the user's private SSH key (used for file transfers) and the home directory path. 
	    </para>   
	    
	    <para>  
	      The ssh public key of the machine 
	      named <emphasis role="italic">&quot;userId-machineId&quot;</emphasis> is returned and stored in the $HOME/.vishnu/localAccountPublicKey/ directory
	      and must be added by the user in the ssh authorized key directory of the UNIX account.
	      Doing this allows VISHNU to be directly connected on this UNIX account, running tasks as if it was the owner of the UNIX account. With the command <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_set_ssh_key</emphasis>, the user can automatically configure the authorized_keys file of a remote account by using the ssh public key previously returned. This command uses the 
	      real hostname of the remote machine and not the VISHNU machine identifier. It also allows to remove a given public key from a remote authorized_keys file and it is possible to enable rollback in case of an inappropriate removal. Indeed, the command makes a backup of the authorized_keys file in a file named 
	      <emphasis role="italic">&quot;authorized_keys.bak&quot;</emphasis> before update it.
	    </para>
	   
	  <itemizedlist>
	    <listitem> 
	      <para>
		To add a local account to the user user_1 on the machine_1 with the login toto and the private key ~/.ssh/id_dsa :
	      </para>
	   
	      <para>
		<emphasis role = "bold">vishnu_add_local_account user_1 machine_1 toto ~/.ssh/id_dsa /home/toto </emphasis> (after the success of the execution of this command, the public key
		associated to the machine whose VISHNU identifier is machine_1 is returned in the following path $HOME/.vishnu/localAccountPublicKey/user_1-machine_1).
	      </para>
	    </listitem> 
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		To add the public key located at $HOME/.vishnu/localAccountPublicKey/user_1-machine_1 to the authorized_keys of the user toto on the VISHNU machine identified by machine_1 whose real name is test.intranet.lan :
	      </para>
	      
	      <para>
		<emphasis role = "bold">vishnu_set_ssh_key -a $HOME/.vishnu/localAccountPublicKey/user_1-machine_1 toto@test.intranet.lan </emphasis>
	      </para>  
	    </listitem>  
	    <listitem>
	      <para>
		To remove the public key located at $HOME/.vishnu/localAccountPublicKey/userId-machineId to the authorized_keys of the user toto on the VISHNU machine identified by machine_1 whose real name is test.intranet.lan :
	      </para>
	      
	      <para>
		<emphasis role = "bold">vishnu_set_ssh_key -r $HOME/.vishnu/localAccountPublicKey/user_1-machine_1 toto@test.intranet.lan </emphasis>
	      </para>  
	      
	      <para><emphasis role = "bold">Warning: </emphasis>A unix login can be used for only one local account on a specific machine</para>
	    </listitem>
	  </itemizedlist>
	</section>
	   
  </chapter> 
</book>

