<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<book xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <info>
      <title>D1.1a - VISHNU General specifications</title>
      <author>
        <personname><firstname>Benjamin</firstname><surname>Isnard</surname></personname>
      </author>
      <author>
        <personname><firstname>Daouda</firstname><surname>Traoré</surname></personname>
      </author>
      <author>
        <personname><firstname>Eugène</firstname><surname>Pamba Capo-Chichi</surname></personname>
      </author>
      <author>
        <personname><firstname>Kevin</firstname><surname>Coulomb</surname></personname>
      </author>
       <author>
        <personname><firstname>Ibrahima</firstname><surname>Cissé</surname></personname>
      </author>
      <revhistory>
        <revision>
        <revnumber>01</revnumber>
        <date>07/12/2010</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
          <para>Formatting example</para>
        </revdescription>
        </revision>
        <revision>
          <revnumber>02</revnumber>
          <date>13/12/2010</date>
          <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
          <revdescription>
            <para>Pre-deliverable</para>
          </revdescription>
        </revision>
        <revision>
          <revnumber>03</revnumber>
          <date>13/01/2011</date>
          <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
          <revdescription>
            <para>First Release</para>
          </revdescription>
        </revision>
        <revision>
          <revnumber>04</revnumber>
          <date>10/02/2011</date>
          <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
          <revdescription>
            <para>Modified 1.2, 1.4, U1, U1.1, U1.3.3, U1.3.4, U1.3.5, U1.4, U1.5, U2, U3, U4, U4.1, U4.2, UA1, UA1.1, UA6.2, UA7, T1.2, T2.6.
              Added UA1.3 and modified 2.3.</para>
          </revdescription>
        </revision>
        <revision>
          <revnumber>05</revnumber>
          <date>31/03/2011</date>
          <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
          <revdescription>
            <para>Modified 4.2.6, UC IA2. Fix set threshold available in branch c, the threshold is the cpuload and not the number of processes</para>
          </revdescription>
        </revision>
      </revhistory>
    </info>
  <chapter>
    <title>Document presentation</title>
    <section>
      <title>Document objectives</title>
      <para>This document presents the external specifications of the Vishnu system at a general
        level. At this level, we describe the interaction of a user with the system without
        providing implementation details. The different steps that constitute one scenario are
        detailed as well as the content of the messages exchanged. The main objective is to describe
        the system from the user point of view.</para>
      <para>These general specifications are a prerequisite for the detailed specifications step in
        the software development process.</para>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Document structure</title>
      <para>The document is divided into 4 parts corresponding to the 4 modules that compose the
        Vishnu system:</para>
      <para><itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>UMS: Users Management Service</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>TMS: Tasks Management Service</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>FMS: Files Management Service</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>IMS: Information Management Service</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist></para>
      <para>Each module  corresponds to a chapter in the document, and each chapter contains three sections:<itemizedlist>
           <listitem>
            <para>A first section containing &quot;Use case descriptions&quot; that follow the standard UML
              description of a use case. Each use case is identified by a code beginning with a letter corresponding to the
              VISHNU Module that realizes the use case (U for UMS, T for TMS, F for FMS, I for IMS).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>A second section containing the &quot;Use case diagrams&quot; that describe the organization
              of the different use cases (see §1.3 for a more precise definition of use cases).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>A third section containing the &quot;Data dictionary&quot; that contains the definitions of the words or expressions
              used in the use cases of the module.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist></para>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Use cases format description</title>
      <para>The specifications of VISHNU functionalities are formatted as &quot;use case descriptions&quot; and &quot;use case diagrams&quot;
      following the UML standard. Each use
      case is the description of a scenario that a VISHNU user will follow when using the system, and it details each step of the
      user/system interaction. The use cases do not describe the internal steps that the user should not be aware of, and that may be
      specific to the implementation of the use case.</para>
      <para>Each <emphasis role="bold">use case description</emphasis> can contain the following elements:</para>
      <para><itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Title</emphasis>: Contains the use case code and name.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Summary</emphasis>: Describes the main objective of the use case.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Actors</emphasis>: Contains respectively &quot;User&quot;, &quot;Admin&quot; or both when
                 the use case applies respectively to a standard user, an administrator or both classes of users.
            </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Precondition</emphasis>: Contains the conditions that should be realized before the use case runs.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Postcondition</emphasis>: Contains the conditions that should be realized when the basic sequences or
             the branch sequences are finished.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Base sequence</emphasis>: Contains the basic sequence in chronological order between the Actor and the System. Each step 
            of the sequence is identified by a number.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Branch sequence</emphasis>: Contains the branch(es) of the base sequence. The branch step is identified by a
            number, a letter and eventually a number: the first number identies the branching point in the base sequence, the letter identifies
            the branch itself and the last number is used for the different steps within the branch. The postconditions should be realized after
            the branch is finished.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Exception sequence</emphasis>: Contains the errors that may happen during the base sequence or the branch
            sequence, as considered by users. The exceptions are identified by a base or branch step identifier (see above) followed by a letter that
            identifies the exception. The postconditions cannot be realized after the exception is thrown.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
             <para><emphasis role="bold">Extension of</emphasis>: Contains list of use cases that the current use case &quot;extends&quot; (see
             below for a definition of this relationship).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
             <para><emphasis role="bold">Extensions</emphasis>: Contains list of use cases that &quot;extend&quot; the current use case (see
             below for a definition of this relationship).</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
             <para><emphasis role="bold">Notes</emphasis>: All things for understanding the use case can be recorded here.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
      <para>Each <emphasis role="bold">use case diagram</emphasis> show the relationships between Actors and use cases, and between use cases. All
      these relationships are defined in the UML standard and have the following meaning:</para>
      <para><itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Generalization</emphasis> (shown as solid arrow with a large triangle head): the source use case inherits
            properties and behavior of the parent (target of the arrow) use case and may override the behavior of the parent. The preconditions, 
            postconditions and exceptions of the parent apply to the child use case. A use case that has child (specializations) of itself is
            shown in the use case diagram in <emphasis role="bold">orange</emphasis> color.</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Extension</emphasis> (shown as dashed arrow with &quot;extend&quot; stereotype): this is a directed relationship
            that specifies how and when the behavior defined in usually supplementary (optional) extending use case can be inserted into the behavior
            defined in the extended use case. Extending use case typically defines optional behavior that is not necessarily meaningful by itself.
            The extension takes place at one or more extension points defined in the extended use case by the &quot;Include&quot; keyword. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Inclusion</emphasis> (shown as dashed arrow with &quot;include&quot; stereotype): this is a directed relationship
            between two use cases when required, not optional behavior of the included use case is inserted into the behavior of the 
            including (base) use case. Including use case depends on the addition of the included use case. Including use cases are
            usually not complete by themselves and require the included use cases. A use case that has inclusions is shown in the use case
            diagram in <emphasis role="bold">blue</emphasis> color.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>References</title>
      <para>None</para>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Glossary</title>
      <para>
         <itemizedlist>
           <listitem>
             <para><emphasis role="bold">Batch scheduler</emphasis>: system used to manage batch jobs on multi-processor systems or
            clusters.</para>
           </listitem>
           <listitem>
             <para><emphasis role="bold">Client system</emphasis>: computer system used to send requests to the VISHNU system either using the
               command-line interface or any API.</para>
             </listitem>
           <listitem>
             <para><emphasis role="bold">Exception</emphasis>: event happening during the execution of a use case scenario and that triggers a
               specific action from the System. This action can either be returning an error message to the user (if the used interface is interactive)
               or triggering a programing language exception if the used interface is programmatic.</para>
             </listitem>
           <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Sysfera-DS</emphasis>: open-source middleware software used by Vishnu (former name
              "DIET")</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">UML</emphasis>: Unified Modeling Language (current version: v2.3)</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">VISHNU system</emphasis>: set of all elements (software, hardware, data) that compose a single instance of the
            VISHNU application and that work together to provide VISHNU services to the users.</para>
          </listitem>
         </itemizedlist>
      </para>
    </section>
  </chapter>
    <!-- GENERATED PART -->
  <chapter annotations="UMS/specs/UMS.asta#UCDIAG+UCDESC+DICT(UMS Analyse/DATA_DICTIONARY)">
    <title>Use cases for User Management Service (UMS)</title>
  </chapter>
  <chapter annotations="TMS/specs/TMS.asta#UCDIAG+UCDESC+DICT(TMS Analyse/DATA_DICTIONARY)">
    <title>Use cases for Tasks Management Service (TMS)</title>
  </chapter>
  <chapter annotations="IMS/specs/IMS.asta#UCDIAG+UCDESC+DICT(IMS Analyse/DATA_DICTIONARY)">
    <title>Use cases for Information Management Service (IMS)</title>
  </chapter>
  <chapter annotations="FMS/specs/FMS.asta#UCDIAG+UCDESC+DICT(FMS Analyse/DATA_DICTIONARY)">
    <title>Use cases for File Management Service (FMS)</title>
  </chapter>
</book>
  
