<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/xsl"
        href="http://docbook.sourceforge.net/release/xsl/current/manpages/docbook.xsl"?>
<!--;TMS.apim#MAN(user);UMS.apim#CPP(user);TMS.apim#CPP(user);UMS.apim#PYTHON(user);TMS.apim#PYTHON(user) -->
<book
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" label="UMS.apim#MAN(user);TMS.apim#MAN(user);FMS.apim#MAN(user);IMS.apim#MAN(user);UMS.apim#CPP(user);TMS.apim#CPP(user);FMS.apim#CPP(user);IMS.apim#CPP(user);UMS.apim#PYTHON(user);TMS.apim#PYTHON(user);FMS.apim#PYTHON(user);IMS.apim#PYTHON(user)">
  <info>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Benjamin</firstname>
        <surname>Isnard</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Daouda</firstname>
        <surname>Traoré</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Eugène</firstname>
        <surname>Pamba Capo-Chichi</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Kevin</firstname>
        <surname>Coulomb</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Ibrahima</firstname>
        <surname>Cissé</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Rodrigue</firstname>
        <surname>Chakode</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <title> VISHNU User Manual</title>
    <date>June 21, 2012</date>
    <revhistory>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>1</revnumber>
        <date>08/03/2011</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
	  
	  <para> First version of the VISHNU user manual which concerns only the UMS package.</para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>2</revnumber>
        <date>03/05/2011</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
	  
	  <para> Add of details concerning the TMS package.</para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>3</revnumber>
        <date>15/06/2011</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
	  
	  <para> Add of details concerning the IMS and FMS package.</para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>4</revnumber>
        <date>28/06/2011</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
	  <para> Add of TMS generic script example.</para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>5</revnumber>
        <date>18/07/2011</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
	  <para> Add of the CLI examples and fix some mistakes..</para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>6</revnumber>
        <date>11/08/2011</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      <para>Add of SLURM batch scheduler </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>7</revnumber>
        <date>23/08/2011</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      <para>Add the only one local account per machine warning. Add a reference to VISHNU_API </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>8</revnumber>
        <date>14/12/2011</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      <para>Add a section dedicated of the VISHNU Job Output Environment Variables. Add  of other syntaxes for VISHNU generic script. Update of vishnu submit job reference, vishnu create dir reference. Add of vishnu_current_session_id a new command line reference. 
        Add the use of the .netrc file of the connection and the reconnection.
   </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>9</revnumber>
        <date>16/12/2011</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      <para>Add a section dedicated of the Configuration of ssh keys required for TMS.
   </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>10</revnumber>
        <date>10/01/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
    <para>Updates of TMS:</para><para>Modified decription of vishnu_submit_job command (to take into account automatic submission).</para><para>Extended vishnu_submit_job options (added load criterion option for automatic submission, added option to select a queue automatically).</para><para>Modified decription of vishnu_list_jobs command (to take into account listing of jobs on all machines).</para><para>Extended vishnu_list_jobs options (added multipleStatus option for combination of several job states, added option to list all jobs submitted by the underlying batch scheduler (VISHNU jobs and jobs submitted out of VISHNU).</para><para>Modified decription of submitJob C++ and Python API function (to take into account automatic submission).</para><para>Modified decription of listJobs C++ and Python API function (to take into account listing of jobs on all machines).</para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>11</revnumber>
        <date>06/03/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      <para>Add of LSF batch scheduler. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>12</revnumber>
        <date>08/03/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      <para>Add of VISHNU commands for LDAP support and for connection and reconnection using multiples VISHNU accounts.</para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>13</revnumber>
        <date>11/04/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      <para>Add of Grid Engine batch scheduler. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>14</revnumber>
        <date>22/05/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      <para>Add FAQ section. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>15</revnumber>
        <date>21/06/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      
    <para>Add a section for the service vishnu_set_ssh_key in UMS that allows to configure ssh keys for remote accounts. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>16</revnumber>
        <date>28/06/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      
    <para>Add a section for the copy/move commands in FMS with the client out of the DNS. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>17</revnumber>
        <date>04/09/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      
    <para>Add option -l on list job. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>18</revnumber>
        <date>07/11/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      
      
      
    <para>Add option -S on vishnu_submit_job. </para><para>Add of PBSPro batch scheduler </para><para>Add default batch options. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>19</revnumber>
        <date>04/12/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      
    <para>Rename of FMS functions according to Posix names. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>20</revnumber>
        <date>21/11/2012</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      
    <para>Update for ZMQ. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
      <revision>
        <revnumber>21</revnumber>
        <date>17/12/2013</date>
        <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
        <revdescription>
      
    <para>Update for posix shell. </para></revdescription>
      </revision>
    </revhistory>
    <copyright>
      <year>2012</year>
      <holder>SysFera SA</holder>
    </copyright>
    <legalnotice>
      <para>These manual pages are provided under the following conditions:</para>
      <para>Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:</para>
      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.</para>
        </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
      <para>This software is governed by the CECILL licence under French law and
	abiding by the rules of distribution of free software.  You can  use, 
	modify and/ or redistribute the software under the terms of the CeCILL
	license as circulated by CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the following URL
	&quot;http://www.cecill.info&quot;.</para>
      <para>As a counterpart to the access to the source code and  rights to copy,
	modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
	with a limited warranty  and the software's author,  the holder of the
	economic rights,  and the successive licensors  have only  limited
	liability.</para>
      <para>In this respect, the user's attention is drawn to the risks associated
	with loading,  using,  modifying and/or developing or reproducing the
	software by the user in light of its specific status of free software,
	that may mean  that it is complicated to manipulate,  and  that  also
	therefore means  that it is reserved for developers  and  experienced
	professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are therefore
	encouraged to load and test the software's suitability as regards their
	requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems and/or 
	data to be ensured and,  more generally, to use and operate it in the 
	same conditions as regards security.</para>
    </legalnotice>
    <productname>VISHNU</productname>
    <releaseinfo>1.0</releaseinfo>
  </info>
  <chapter>
    <title> Document presentation</title>
    <section>
      <title>Document objectives</title>
      <para>
	This documents is a quick start guide of VISHNU software for users. The main objective of this document is to describe 
	the VISHNU installation procedure and the way to use it.
      </para>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Document structure</title>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>Chapter 1 presents the document structure.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Chapter 2 describes the VISHNU software (installation procedure, usage description and troubleshooting).</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Chapter 3, Chapter 4, Chapter 5 and Chapter 6 contain the VISHNU commands reference respectively for UMS, TMS, FMS and IMS package.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Chapter 7, Chapter 8, Chapter 9 and Chapter 10 contain the C++ API reference respectively for UMS, TMS, FMS and IMS package.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Chapter 11, Chapter 12, Chapter 13 and Chapter 14 contain the Python API reference respectively for UMS, TMS, FMS and IMS package.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>References</title>
      <para><itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para>[D1.1b]: VISHNU &quot;Spécifications techniques des besoins&quot;</para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>[VISHNU_API] VISHNU API : Document that contain the VISHNU API description and all the datatypes used.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist></para>
    </section>
  </chapter>
  <chapter>
    <title>Installation and usage</title>
    <para>
      VISHNU is primarly designed to facilitate the access to high-performance computing resources by providing the following services:
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>User management services (UMS): authentication and session management.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Information management services (IMS): monitoring and control services.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>Tasks management services (TMS): submission of tasks (jobs) on computing resources.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>File management services (FMS): display and transfer of files between storage resources.</para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <section>
      <title> Installation procedure of the clients </title>
      <para> 
	This section details the main steps of the installation process for the clients, including the installation requirements [D1.1b].
      </para>
      <para> <emphasis role="bold">Installation requirements (for versions see the STB document):</emphasis></para>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para> GCC </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para> CMAKE </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para> ZMQ </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para> BOOST </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para> PYTHON </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para> JAVA  </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para> SWIG  </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para> LIBCRYPT </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <para><emphasis role="bold">Installation procedure:</emphasis></para>
      <section>
        <title> From sources </title>
        <para>
	  <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
              <para> Download the VISHNU install sources: git@github.com:SysFera/vishnu.git for the repository </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para> Decompress it (if tarball downloaded) and go to the vishnu directory </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para> Create a build directory and run CMake as follows: </para>
              <para>> mkdir build </para>
              <para>> cd build </para>
              <para> If your install directory is for example: /opt/vishnu </para>
              <para>> cmake -DCLIENT_ONLY=ON -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/vishnu .. </para>
              <para>> make &amp;&amp; make install</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
              <para>The module for each client can be built using the '-DCOMPILE_*MS=ON' flag. These are some commande line examples on how to build the clients</para>
              <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                  <para> <emphasis role="bold">To compile the UMS package : </emphasis></para>
                  <para>> cmake -DCOMPILE_UMS=ON  -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/vishnu ..</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para> <emphasis role="bold">To compile the TMS package : </emphasis></para>
                  <para>> cmake -DCOMPILE_UMS=ON -DCOMPILE_TMS=ON -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/vishnu ..</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para> <emphasis role="bold">To compile the FMS package : </emphasis></para>
                  <para>> cmake -DCOMPILE_UMS=ON -DCOMPILE_FMS=ON -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/vishnu ..</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <para> <emphasis role="bold">To compile the IMS package : </emphasis></para>
                  <para>> cmake -DCOMPILE_UMS=ON -DCOMPILE_TMS=ON -DCOMPILE_FMS=ON -DCOMPILE_IMS=ON </para>
                  <para> -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/vishnu ..</para>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
	</para>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title> From binaries package </title>
        <para>Assuming the dependencies are installed (zmq).
	Download the vishnu-client_*_i386.deb, where * stands for the VISHNU version and install it (dpkg -i vishnu_client_*_i386.deb). Then, if the VISHNU hierarchy is already running and accessible from the client, you can use VISHNU. All the services are available in the debian packages.
	</para>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Client configuration file</title>
        <programlisting>
          dispatcher=tcp://127.0.0.1:5560 
          UMS=tcp://127.0.0.1:5555
          retryTimeout=10
        </programlisting>
        <para>If there is a server in the configuration file, it is always used, for instance if there is a TMS, it is used althought it does not corresponds the one with the machineid parameter given. If none is found, the dispatcher is used, if no corresponding server and no dispatcher is found, an error is returned.
        retryTimeout corresponds to a timeout before relaunching a command if no answer is given (there is up to 3 retries for a client command)</para>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title> Software usage description </title>
      <para>VISHNU is composed of 4 main packages, one that deals with the users and the machine (UMS), one that deals with the batch schedulers (TMS), one that deals with the files management (FMS) and one that handles the information of the system (IMS). These clients can be installed altogether or just one or two. Please contact your VISHNU admin to know the corresponding servers you can have before installing the client. It is important to note that the client can be installed without the server being on the platform, the call will end up with an exception and the message &quot;Vishnu not available&quot;. Below each package will be described to present the services they offer to the users.</para>
      <para>More information about the datatypes can be found in the [VISHNU_API] document.</para>
      <para><emphasis role="bold">WARNING: The lists are INOUT parameters, the results are appended, they do not overwrite the existing list. Moreover, the get function on the lists do not check the bounds, it is like using the [] operator.</emphasis></para>
      <section>
        <title> UMS package </title>
        <section>
          <title> User account creation </title>
          <para>
	    The first step to access VISHNU is to request a new account to a VISHNU administrator. The only information required to create a new account is your full name and email address. You will automatically receive an email containing your userId and password.
	  </para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title> Connection to VISHNU </title>
          <para>
	    To connect, use the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_connect</emphasis> command in the shell terminal (all bourne shells are supported). 
      The password received by email is temporary and must be changed at the first connection by using the <emphasis
                role="bold"> vishnu_change_password </emphasis> command. It is also possible to make connection by using the .netrc file. Indeed when the userId and the password are empty, with <emphasis
                role="bold"> vishnu_connect </emphasis> without parameters, the system automatically gets the login and the password from the .netrc file. A vishnu account on the .netrc file can be defined as follows: 
    
      </para>
          <para> <emphasis role="bold">machine</emphasis> vishnu </para>
          <para> <emphasis role="bold">login</emphasis> toto </para>
          <para> <emphasis role="bold">password</emphasis> pwd </para>
          <para>The values toto and pwd are respectively the userId and the password of a user registered in vishnu and the machine must be named <emphasis
                role="bold">vishnu</emphasis>.</para>
          <para>It is also possible to define a series of VISHNU accounts on the .netrc file. The system will try them each in turn until one which will allow to make a connection. As the .netrc file, the <emphasis
                role="bold"> vishnu_connect_m </emphasis> command allows
      to give successively several couples login/password.
      </para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title> Reconnection to VISHNU </title>
          <para>
	    Reconnection is done using the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_reconnect</emphasis> command. This command allows using an existing session that was previously opened but not closed. It makes it possible to simultaneously use the same session in different shell terminals. A session is what authentifies a user once he has connected. The user does not need password or username when authenticated to use vishnu. Moreover, the session contains the commands made by a user, so he can retrieve the sequence of commands made in a previous work session. 
	    As previously defined for the connection, the .netrc file can be used for reconnection. 
	    The <emphasis role="bold"> vishnu_reconnect_m </emphasis> command can use several couples login/password for the reconnection. In this previous case, the first parameter must be 
	    the session identifer.
	  </para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title> Session management in VISHNU </title>
          <para>
	    After a successful call to the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_connect</emphasis> command, a session is created. 
	    The session is required for calling any other commands. It avoids systematic authentification by userId and password. Only commands <emphasis
                role="bold">vishnu_connect</emphasis>, <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_reconnect</emphasis> and <emphasis
                role="bold">vishnu_change_password</emphasis> can be used outside a session by using userId and password. 
	    The <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_list_history_cmd</emphasis> command lists all the commands launched within a session.
	  </para>
          <para> To prevent unclosed sessions when the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_close</emphasis> command is not used, the session is automatically closed on timeout or on disconnect (from the terminal). </para>
          <section>
            <title> Session close on timeout </title>
            <para>  
	      In this mode, the session is automatically closed after an inactivity delay specified by the system or 
	      configured by the user using the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_configure_option</emphasis> command.
	    </para>
          </section>
          <section>
            <title> Session close on disconnect </title>
            <para> 
	      In this mode, the session is automatically closed when the shell terminal is closed. It is important to note that the system makes it impossible to close a session while commands are running. In this case, a session with automatic close on disconnect changes the close mode to automatic close on timeout.
            </para>
          </section>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title> Local user configuration management </title>
          <section>
            <title> Local user configuration creation </title>
            <para>  
	      To access a UNIX account on a specific machine defined on VISHNU, the user must create a local user configuration by using the 
	      <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_add_local_account</emphasis> command. The <emphasis
                  role="bold">vishnu_list_machines</emphasis> command
	      gives information about the machines in which a local user configuration can be created or where a local user configuration has already been created. The information 
	      required to create a new local user configuration are: the userId, the machineId, the login of the UNIX account on the specified machine,
	      the absolute path to the user's private SSH key (used for file transfers) and the home directory path. 
	    </para>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Warning: </emphasis>A unix login can only have one local account on a machine</para>
            <para>  
	      The ssh public key of the machine 
	      named <emphasis role="italic">&quot;userId-machineId&quot;</emphasis> is returned and stored in the $HOME/.vishnu/localAccountPublicKey/ directory
	      and must be added by the user in the ssh authorized key directory of the UNIX account.
	      Doing this allows VISHNU to be directly connected on this UNIX account, running tasks as if it was the owner of the UNIX account.
	    </para>
            <para>  
	      With the command <emphasis role="italic">&quot;vishnu_set_ssh_key&quot;</emphasis> you can automatically add a local ssh public key to a remote account (in the authorized_keys file). This command also allows to remove a given key to that file. See the command reference section for the usage. <emphasis
                  role="bold">Note</emphasis> that to enable rollback in case of an inappropriate removal, the command makes a backup of the authorized_keys file in a file named <emphasis
                  role="italic">&quot;authorized_keys.bak&quot;</emphasis> before altering it.
	    </para>
          </section>
          <section>
            <title> Local user configuration update </title>
            <para>  
	      All previous parameters used to create a local user configuration can be updated by using the 
	      <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_update_local_account</emphasis> command except for userId and machineId. 
	    </para>
          </section>
          <section>
            <title> Local user configuration remove </title>
            <para> 
	      A local user configuration can be removed by using the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_delete_local_account</emphasis> command.
	    </para>
          </section>
          <para>
	    It is possible to display the local user configurations with the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_list_local_account</emphasis> command. Other 
	    commands which are not cited above can be used to display information, such as the <emphasis
                role="bold">vishnu_list_options</emphasis> command, which 
	    displays all the options configured by the user, or the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_list_sessions</emphasis> command, which
	    displays information about the sessions.
	  </para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title> Local user-authentication configuration management </title>
          <section>
            <title> Local user-authentication configuration creation </title>
            <para>  
	      To be authenticated using a VISHNU user-authentication system different of the UMS database, the user must create a local 
	      user-authentication configuration by using the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_add_auth_account</emphasis> command. 
	      The <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_list_auth_systems </emphasis> command
	      gives information about the user-authentication systems in which a local user-authentication configuration can be created. The information 
	      required to create a new local user-authentication configuration are: the VISHNU identifier of the user-authentication system and 
	      the login of the user on this user-authentication system. 
	    </para>
            <para><emphasis role="bold">Warning: </emphasis> It is possible to define only one local user-authentication configuration on a specific user-authentication system for the same user.</para>
          </section>
          <section>
            <title> Local user-authentication configuration update </title>
            <para>  
	      Only the login used to create a local user-authentication configuration can be updated by using the 
	      <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_update_auth_account</emphasis> command. 
	    </para>
          </section>
          <section>
            <title> Local user-authentication configuration remove </title>
            <para> 
		A local user-authentication configuration can be removed by using the <emphasis
                  role="bold">vishnu_delete_auth_account</emphasis> command.
	      </para>
          </section>
          <para>
	    It is possible to display the local user-authentication configurations with the <emphasis
                role="bold">vishnu_list_auth_accounts</emphasis> command.
	  </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title> TMS package </title>
        <section>
          <title> Job submission </title>
          <para>
	    To submit a job, via VISHNU, to the batch scheduler of a specific machine, the user needs: an active VISHNU session, 
	    a local user configuration registered on VISHNU that corresponds to an existing UNIX account on the specified machine, and a script that describes 
	    the job to submit. In the current implementation of VISHNU, it is possible to use the directives for several batch schedulers: TORQUE, LoadLeveler, SLURM, LSF,
            Grid Engine and PBSPro.
	    In order to use the same script on different batch schedulers, a generic script with generic VISHNU directives is used.
	    The <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_submit_job</emphasis> command allows a user to submit a job in the shell terminal.
	    To obtain information on a job, the user can use the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_get_job_info</emphasis> or 
	    <emphasis role="bold"> vishnu_list_jobs</emphasis>, 
	    and for a job's progression status, <emphasis role="bold"> the vishnu_get_job_progression</emphasis> command is used. The job's progression status is calculated according to the wall-clock time specified
	    by the user during the job's submission.
            When TMS is running with a classic batch scheduler, it is possible to submit a job to TMS to get the script executed in the 
            shell and not by the batch scheduler. By default the real underlying batch scheduler is used. To do so, one must use the 
            <emphasis role="bold">-p</emphasis> option in command line
            (posix parameter in objects). The user will see it like others jobs and can access the same information. Nevertheless, some
            parameters are irrelevant in this case, for instance the CPU, the memory, the queue or the mail notification parameters
            are ignored. The queue will always be the same. Moreover, on a machine without batch scheduler, the admin can deploy TMS and
            only this 'pseudo batch' will be used.
	  </para>
          <section>
            <title> VISHNU generic script </title>
            <para> The key words of a VISHNU generic script start with the special character <emphasis
                  role="bold">#%</emphasis>. For example, to specify 
	      a job's name, users have to use the following directive in their scripts: <emphasis
                  role="bold">#% vishnu_job_name</emphasis>. 
	      The possible generic directives are:
	    </para>
            <itemizedlist>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_group</emphasis>: allow to specify the group's name,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_working_dir</emphasis>: allow to specify a job remote working dir,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_job_name</emphasis>: allow to specify the job's name. Spaces are not accepted in job name,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_output</emphasis>: allow to specify the path of the job's ouput file,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_error</emphasis>: allow to specify the path of the file containing the problems that occured during the job's execution,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_wallclocklimit</emphasis>: allow to specify the estimated time for the job's execution,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_cput</emphasis>: allow to specify the job cpu limit time,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_nb_cpu</emphasis>: allow to specify the number of cpus per node of the job,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_nbNodesAndCpuPerNode</emphasis>: allow to specify the number of nodes and the cpu of each node. For exemple if you want to use 4 nodes and to use 3 cpus of each node, you must sepecify thes numbers by &quot;4:3&quot;, </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_memory</emphasis>: allow to specify the memory size that the job requires,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_mailNotification </emphasis>: allow to specify the notification type of the job. Valid type values are BEGIN, END, ERROR, 
        and ALL (any state change), </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_notify_user</emphasis>: The name of user to receive email notification of state changes as defined by the option mailNotification. The default value is the submitting user,
		  </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_queue</emphasis>: specifies the queue where the job will be submitted. It is possible to obtain a list of 
		    the batch scheduler's queues by using the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_list_queues</emphasis> command.
		  </para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            <para>
        It is important to note that the user can also add directives specific to a batch scheduler (TORQUE, LoadLeveler, SLURM, LSF or Grid Engine). Such specific directives must be added directly after the generic directives. Here is an example:
      </para>
            <programlisting>
        #!/bin/sh
        #% vishnu_job_name=first_job
        #% vishnu_queue=first_queue
        #% vishnu_output=/path/to/jobOutput
        #% vishnu_error=/path/to/jobError
        #% vishnu_wallclocklimit=2:40:5
        #This line is a comment
        #The following lines are TORQUE specific section
        #PBS -l ncpus=1
        #PBS -l mem=50
        #The following lines are LOADLEVELER specific section
        #@ notify_user=user@mail
        #@ cpu_limit=2
        #The following lines are SLURM specific section
        #SBATCH -J myFristJob
        #SBATCH -o myJob-%j.out
        #SBATCH -e myJob-%j.err
        #SBATCH -t 01:02:20
        #SBATCH -p myFavoritePartition
        #The following lines are LSF specific section
        #BSUB -J myFristJob
        #BSUB -o myJob-%J.out
        #BSUB -e myJob-%J.err
        #BSUB -W 01:02
        #BSUB -q priority
	#The following lines are Grid Engine specific section
	#$ -N myFristJob
	#$ -o myJob-$JOB_ID.out
	#$ -e myJob-$JOB_ID.err 
	#$ -l s_rt=01:02:20
	#$ -q myFavoriteQueue
      </programlisting>
          </section>
          <section>
            <title> Posix batch default configuration </title>
            <itemizedlist>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_group</emphasis>: ignored, </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_working_dir</emphasis>: user's home by default,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_job_name</emphasis>: posix_job,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_output</emphasis>: in the user's home in a file called VISHNU-XXXX-XXXX.out </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_error</emphasis>: in the user's home in a file called VISHNU-XXXX-XXXX.err, </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_wallclocklimit</emphasis>: infinite by default,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_cput</emphasis>: ignored,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_nb_cpu</emphasis>: ignored,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_nbNodesAndCpuPerNode</emphasis>: ignored,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_memory</emphasis>: ignored,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_mailNotification </emphasis>: ignored,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_notify_user</emphasis>: ignored, 
		  </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para><emphasis role="bold">#% vishnu_queue</emphasis>: ignored.
		  </para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </section>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title> JOB OUTPUT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES </title>
          <para> 
      The VISHNU Job Manager set the following variables in the environment of the batch script.
    </para>
          <para>
      <itemizedlist>
              <listitem>
                <para>
            <emphasis role="bold">VISHNU_BATCHJOB_ID</emphasis>: Set the identifier assigned to the job by the batch system.
          </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>
            <emphasis role="bold">VISHNU_BATCHJOB_NAME</emphasis>: Set the name of the job.
          </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>
            <emphasis role="bold">VISHNU_SUBMIT_MACHINE_NAME</emphasis>: Set the name of the machine on which the job has been submitted.
          </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>
            <emphasis role="bold">VISHNU_BATCHJOB_NODEFILE</emphasis>: Set the name of the file contain the list of nodes assigned to the job.
          </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>
            <emphasis role="bold">VISHNU_BATCHJOB_NUM_NODES</emphasis>: Set the total number of nodes in the job's resource allocation.
          </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para>
            <emphasis role="bold">VISHNU_OUTPUT_DIR</emphasis>: Defines a generic directory through with files generated by a script can be stored in order to be get out easilyvia the appropriate VISHNU commands (vishnu_get_output, vishnu_get_completed_jobs_output).
          </para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
    </para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title> Job Cancellation </title>
          <para> To cancel a job, the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_cancel_job</emphasis> command is used with the VISHNU identifer 
      of the job to cancel. When the identifer of the job is <emphasis role="italic">all</emphasis>, all of the user's jobs are cancelled. 
      An admin can also cancel all the jobs of all the users of VISHNU.
	  </para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title> Job output files </title>
          <para> VISHNU offers two commands, to be used in a shell terminal, to get the result output files for a job: 
	    <itemizedlist>
              <listitem>
                <para> <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_get_job_output</emphasis> or,</para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para> <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_get_completed_jobs_output</emphasis> </para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>        
	    The former gives the output files for a specific job while the latter gives the output files for all the completed jobs.
	    It is important to note that all submitted jobs have two output files: one with the job's results, one (possibly empty) with the errors that occurred during the job's execution. The path of the job's output files is specified during the job's submission.
	  </para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Configuration of ssh keys required for TMS</title>
          <para>
        Submission, cancellation and getting of job output files are executed by TMS SeD launched via ssh under the account of user having issued the request. To execute these services correctly, the public ssh key of the  account dedicated to TMS SeD must be added to authorized_keys ($HOME/.ssh/authorized_keys) file of the user. All keys protected by passphrase must be stored by a ssh agent to allow automatic authentication.
      </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title> FMS package </title>
        <section>
          <title>Create and remove file or directories</title>
          <para>
            The user can create (or remove) a regular file located in a remote host by using the command <emphasis
                role="bold">vishnu_touch</emphasis> ( or <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_rm</emphasis>). He can also create (or remove) directory located in a remote host by using the command <emphasis
                role="bold">vishnu_mkdir</emphasis> ( or <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_rmdir</emphasis>).
	  </para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Get file information</title>
          <para>Several services are available to get file information. The user can get the first ( or last lines) of a given remote file by using the command <emphasis
                role="bold">vishnu_head</emphasis> ( or <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_tail</emphasis>). He can also get the entire content of a remote file (or remote directory) with the command <emphasis
                role="bold">vishnu_more</emphasis>  (or <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_ls</emphasis>).</para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Modify files properties </title>
          <para> The commands <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_chgrp</emphasis> and
            <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_chmod</emphasis>  allow the user to change respectively the group and the access permissions of remote file.</para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Perform file transfer </title>
          <para> The user can submit a file transfer in many ways:
            <itemizedlist>
              <listitem>
                <para> copy (or move) file between two hosts by the commands <emphasis
                      role="bold">vishnu_cp</emphasis> (or <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_mv</emphasis>). To use the copy/move commands from a client out of the DNS, one must use 'localhost' as a machine id for the local machine. </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para> copy (or move) file between two hosts in asynchronous way by the commands <emphasis
                      role="bold">vishnu_acp</emphasis> (or <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_amv</emphasis>) </para>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                <para> list or (cancel) file transfers by the commands <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_list_file_transfers</emphasis> (<emphasis
                      role="bold">vishnu_stop_file_transfers</emphasis>) </para>
              </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
	  </para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title> IMS package </title>
        <section>
          <title>Export of commands</title>
          <para>
	      The user can export the commands made during a session in shell format. The file must have been created before the call, the file will contain a shell script that can be executed. For safety reasons, the connect and change password cannot be in the file. Thus, to execute the shell script, the connect command must be added after the first line of the file that declares the shell format.
	    </para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Get system information</title>
          <para>The get system information is to get information about a machine of the system. It can give information about the memory and/or diskspace available on the machine.</para>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Get the metric </title>
          <para>The user can get the current metrics on a machine or the history of the metrics on a machine to know the evolution of the metric. The user can choose to get the metrics of a specific type (parameters are 1, 2, 3 respectively free CPUload, free diskspace and free memory). Note, when getting the history of metrics, by default, only the first 1000 results are gotten. This is to avoid having to much results with a single command (the metric table may be filled very fastly).</para>
        </section>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title> Troubleshooting functions </title>
        <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para> The <emphasis role="italic">&quot;There is no session in this terminal&quot;</emphasis> error can be solved by connecting to VISHNU using 
		the <emphasis role="bold">vishnu_connect</emphasis> command.
	    </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para> If a message similar to <emphasis role="italic">&quot;warning input stream error&quot;</emphasis> happens when calling vishnu_connect but the call is successful, try cleaning the .vishnu directory.
	    </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
	      If the message <emphasis role="italic">&quot;locale::facet::_S_create_c_locale name not valid&quot;</emphasis> occurs after calling vishnu_connect command, you must export environment variable LANG 
	      as follows : export LANG=C.
	    </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>
	      If the message <emphasis role="italic">&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error [SGE ERROR: warning: username your job is not allowed to run in any queue]&quot;</emphasis> is returned after
	      job submission on the batch scheduler SGE, the admin has to check the existence of a queue by using the command: <emphasis
                  role="bold"> qconf -sql</emphasis>. If there is no queue, you must add one by using the command <emphasis
                  role="bold">qconf -aq </emphasis>.
	    </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title> FAQ </title>
        <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para> If the JAVA API (using the WS or the JAVA jars directly) fails, with an error such as undefined reference in a JNI
              call, please add the flags <emphasis role="italic">-Wl,--add-stdcall-alias</emphasis> at the compilation of the VISHNU
              target in the swigAPI/CMakeLists.txt.
	    </para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </section>
    </section>
  </chapter>
  <reference>
    <title>UMS Command reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_connect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_connect</refname>
        <refpurpose>opens a session</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_connect</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-p <replaceable>closePolicy</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-d <replaceable>sessionInactivityDelay</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-s <replaceable>substituteUserId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-w <replaceable>password</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Opening a VISHNU session is the first step before using any other VISHNU command.
This command authenticates you. You must have been registered in the VISHNU system
by an administrator.  It also creates a session that remains open after the command is
completed and until the session is either manually or automatically closed.
The userId and password may be given through the options, or if no userId and password 
are specified, vishnu_connect will read them in the  .netrc file located in the home of the user. 
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-p <replaceable>closePolicy</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option for closing session automatically.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (DEFAULT), 1 (CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT), 2 (CLOSE_ON_DISCONNECT).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-d <replaceable>sessionInactivityDelay</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is the maximum delay in seconds between two user requests when the CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT policy is set.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-s <replaceable>substituteUserId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option which allows an admin to open a session as if she was another user identified by her userId.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>userId represents the VISHNU user identifier.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-w <replaceable>password</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>password represents the password of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CLOSE_POLICY</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The value of this environment variable represents the session close policy. Overridden by the -p option.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The value of the timeout is incorrect&quot; [43]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To connect the user user_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_connect -u user_1 -w pwd1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_connect_m</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_connect_m</refname>
        <refpurpose>opens a session by trying multiple couples (userId, password) each in turn</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_connect_m</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-p <replaceable>closePolicy</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-d <replaceable>sessionInactivityDelay</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-s <replaceable>substituteUserId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>userId</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>pwd</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Opening a VISHNU session is the first step before using any other VISHNU command.
This command authenticates you. You must have been registered in the VISHNU system
by an administrator.  It also creates a session that remains open after the command is
completed and until the session is either manually or automatically closed.
It is possible to define multiple VISHNU couples (userId, password). In this case, 
vishnu_connect_m read them and tries each couple to make a connection. 
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-p <replaceable>closePolicy</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option for closing session automatically.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (DEFAULT), 1 (CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT), 2 (CLOSE_ON_DISCONNECT).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-d <replaceable>sessionInactivityDelay</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is the maximum delay in seconds between two user requests when the CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT policy is set.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-s <replaceable>substituteUserId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option which allows an admin to open a session as if she was another user identified by her userId.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CLOSE_POLICY</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The value of this environment variable represents the session close policy. Overridden by the -p option.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The value of the timeout is incorrect&quot; [43]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To connect the user user_1 or user_2 using a list of couples (userId, password) :</para>
        <para>vishnu_connect_m user_1 pwd1 user_2 pwd2</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_reconnect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_reconnect</refname>
        <refpurpose>reconnects to a session that is still active</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_reconnect</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-w <replaceable>password</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>sessionId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows you to resume a session that has been opened previously and that has not yet
been closed. You can disconnect from a session without closing it (for example if there are running
commands in that session) by setting the session's close policy (at connection time) to CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT.
As sessions are linked to a specific client system, you cannot reconnect to a 
session that was opened on another client system.
The userId and password may be given through the options, or if no userId and password 
are specified, vishnu_reconnect will read them in the  .netrc file located in the home of the user.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>userId represents the VISHNU user identifier.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-w <replaceable>password</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>password represents the password of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session Id is unknown&quot; [30]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine does not exist or it is locked&quot; [36]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To reconnect the user user_1 to the session S01:</para>
        <para>vishnu_reconnect -u user_1 S01</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_reconnect_m</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_reconnect_m</refname>
        <refpurpose>reconnects to a session that is still active by trying multiple couples (userId, password) each in turn</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_reconnect_m</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>sessionId</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>userId</replaceable></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>pwd</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows you to resume a session that has been opened previously and that has not yet
been closed. You can disconnect from a session without closing it (for example if there are running
commands in that session) by setting the session's close policy (at connection time) to CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT.
As sessions are linked to a specific client system, you cannot reconnect to a 
session that was opened on another client system.
The vishnu_reconnect_m tries in turn multiple couples (userId, password).</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session Id is unknown&quot; [30]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine does not exist or it is locked&quot; [36]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To reconnect the user user_1 or user_2 to the session S01 using a list of couple userId, password :</para>
        <para>vishnu_reconnect_m S01 user_1 pwd_1 user_2 pwd_2</para>
        <para>Warning, the session id MUST be the first parameter in CLI</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_close</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_close</refname>
        <refpurpose>closes the session</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_close</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command closes the session that is currently active in the terminal. It will return
an error if there are still some active requests that were been submitted by the user during
the session (e.g., job submission or file transfers). After the session is closed, it cannot be re-opened.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Commands are running&quot; [31]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To close the current session:</para>
        <para>vishnu_close</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_change_password</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_change_password</refname>
        <refpurpose>changes the password</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_change_password</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>userId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to change the password. It can be done voluntarily or when the password is only temporary:  for your first connection to VISHNU or after your password is reset  by an administrator . </para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;You can modify information. This account is read-only&quot; [54]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To change the password of the user user_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_change_password user_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_add_local_account</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_add_local_account</refname>
        <refpurpose>adds a new local user configuration </refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_add_local_account</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>userId</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>acLogin</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>sshKeyPath</replaceable></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>homeDirectory</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>A local user configuration must be added to allow you (identified by userId) to connect to machine (identified by machineId).
This configuration must match an existing system account on that machine with a login that matches acLogin.
The parameters sshKeyPath parameter (the absolute path to your private SSH key, used for file transfers) must be provided as well as the
homeDirectory path .</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine is locked&quot; [34]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine does not exist or it is locked&quot; [36]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account already exists&quot; [37]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The system account login is already used by another vishnu user&quot; [46]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To add a local account to the user user_1 on machine_1 with the login toto with the public key in .ssh/id_dsa.pub:</para>
        <para>vishnu_add_local_account user_1 machine_1 toto /home/toto/.ssh/id_dsa.pub /home/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_update_local_account</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_update_local_account</refname>
        <refpurpose>updates a local user configuration</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_update_local_account</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-l <replaceable>acLogin</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-s <replaceable>sshKeyPath</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-d <replaceable>homeDirectory</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>userId</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>The local user configuration can be updated. You can modify information of its local configuration such as acLogin, sshKeypath or homeDirectory.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-l <replaceable>acLogin</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>acLogin represents the login of the user on the associated machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-s <replaceable>sshKeyPath</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>sshKeyPath is the path of the ssh key of the user on the associated machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-d <replaceable>homeDirectory</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>HomeDirectory is the path of the home directory of the user on the associated machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The system account login is already used by another vishnu user&quot; [46]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To change the account login to toto2 for the user user_1 on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_update_local_account user_1 machine_1 -l toto2</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_delete_local_account</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_delete_local_account</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes a local user configuration (for a given user on a given machine) from VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_delete_local_account</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>userId</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>The local user configuration can be deleted from VISHNU. When a local user configuration is deleted, all the information about it is deleted from VISHNU.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To delete the local account of the user user_1 on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_delete_local_account user_1 machine_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_local_accounts</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_local_accounts</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the local user configurations</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_local_accounts</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-a</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-i <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>A local configuration is used to configure the access to a given system for a
given user through VISHNU. It is related to an account on that system
that is identified using its login. This command allows you to check all the
local configurations related to your VISHNU account. </para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>adminListOption</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing all local configurations of all users .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing the local configurations of a specific user .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-i <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option for listing local user configurations on a specific machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To list all the local accounts:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_local_accounts -a</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_machines</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_machines</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the machines that are accessible through VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_machines</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-a</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-m <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to display the machines that you can use for VISHNU services.
The machines you can access through VISHNU are those that are configured in 
VISHNU by the VISHNU administrator, and that have been added to your personal
VISHNU configuration using the vishnu_add_local_account command.
The results contain, for each machine, a machine identifier that you can use as a parameter
for other VISHNU commands.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing machines in which a specific user has a local configuration.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>listAllMachine</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option for listing all VISHNU machines.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-m <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option for listing information about a specific machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To list all the machines:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_machines -a</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_history_cmd</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_history_cmd</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the commands</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_history_cmd</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-a</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-i <replaceable>sessionId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-s <replaceable>startDateOption</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-e <replaceable>endDateOption</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command displays a history of the commands you ran. Several options can be used to specify which commands to list.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>adminListOption</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing all commands of all users.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing commands launched by a specific user identified by his/her userId.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-i <replaceable>sessionId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists all commands launched within a specific session.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-s <replaceable>startDateOption</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows the user to organize the commands listed by providing  the start date (the UNIX timestamp of the start date is used).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-e <replaceable>endDateOption</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows the user to organize the commands listed by providing  the end date (the timestamp of the end date is used). By default, the end date is the current day.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To see the own history of commands of a user:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_history_cmd</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_options</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_options</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the options of the user</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_options</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-a</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-n <replaceable>optionName</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command displays the options you configured.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>listAllDeftValue</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option for listing all default option values defined by VISHNU administrator.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing the options of a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-n <replaceable>optionName</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para> allows the user to get the value of a specific option identified by its name  .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The name of the user option is unknown&quot; [41]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To list all the options of the user:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_options -a</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_sessions</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_sessions</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists all sessions of the user</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_sessions</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>status</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-p <replaceable>sessionClosePolicy</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-d <replaceable>sessionInactivityDelay</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-m <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-a</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-i <replaceable>sessionId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-s <replaceable>startDateOption</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-e <replaceable>endDateOption</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to display and filter the list of all your sessions.
For each session, a session identifier is provided which you can use to
reconnect to a given session using the vishnu_reconnect command.
The session's status is either 0 (inactive) or 1 (active).</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>status</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>specifies the status of the sessions which will be listed.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: -1 (UNDEFINED), 0 (INACTIVE), 1 (ACTIVE).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-p <replaceable>sessionClosePolicy</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>specifies the closure mode of the sessions which will be listed (CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT or CLOSE_ON_DISCONNECT).
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (DEFAULT), 1 (CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT), 2 (CLOSE_ON_DISCONNECT).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-d <replaceable>sessionInactivityDelay</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>specifies the inactivity delay in seconds of the sessions which will be listed.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-m <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows the user to list sessions opened on a specific client's machine by using its name.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>adminListOption</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing all sessions of all users.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing sessions opened by a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-i <replaceable>sessionId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows the user to list all commands launched within a specific session.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-s <replaceable>startDateOption</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows the user to organize the commands listed by providing  the start date (the UNIX timestamp of the start date is used).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-e <replaceable>endDateOption</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows the user to organize the commands listed by providing  the end date (the timestamp of the end date is used). By default, the end date is the current day.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To list all opened the sessions of the user user_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_session -u user_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_configure_option</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_configure_option</refname>
        <refpurpose>configures an option of the user</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_configure_option</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>optionName</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>value</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Options in VISHNU corresponds to the parameters of some VISHNU commands 
(e.g., the close policy for vishnu_connect)
that can be preset in the user configuration stored by the VISHNU system. This
command is used to set the value of an option for the current user (the user who
opened the session).</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The name of the user option is unknown&quot; [41]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The value of the timeout is incorrect&quot; [43]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The value of the transfer command is incorrect&quot; [44]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To set the value of the option VISHNU_TIMEOUT to the value 69:</para>
        <para>vishnu_configure_option VISHNU_TIMEOUT 69</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_current_session_id</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_current_session_id</refname>
        <refpurpose>display the session id</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_current_session_id</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to get current session identifier.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get the current session identifier:</para>
        <para>vishnu_current_session_id</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_auth_systems</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_auth_systems</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists VISHNU user-authentification systems</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_auth_systems</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-a</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-f</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-i <replaceable>authSystemId</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to display all user-authentication systems. By default, the user-authentication systems where the user has a local user-authentication config are listed.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>listAllAuthSystems</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option for listing all VISHNU user-authentication systems.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-f <replaceable>listFullInfo</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing full VISHNU user-authentication systems information such as all concerned only the administrator:
authLogin, authPassword and userPasswordEncryption

 
.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing all user-authentication systems in which a specific user has local user-authentication configs.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-i <replaceable>authSystemId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option for listing a specific user-authentication system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The type of the user-authentication system is unknown&quot; [47]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To list all user-authentication systems:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_auth_systems</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_add_auth_account</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_add_auth_account</refname>
        <refpurpose>adds a new local user-authentication configuration</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_add_auth_account</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>authSystemId</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>acLogin</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to add a local user-authentication configuration in VISHNU.
The required parameters are : the VISHNU user identifier, the user-authentication system identifier and the uid of the user on the corresponding user-authentication system</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>represents an admin option to add a user-authentication account of a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The system account login is already used by another vishnu user&quot; [46]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication account already exists&quot; [51]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To add the local user-authentication configuration whose account is toto on the user-authentication system identified by AUTHENLDAP_1: </para>
        <para>vishnu_add_auth_account AUTHENLDAP_1 toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_update_auth_account</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_update_auth_account</refname>
        <refpurpose>updates a local user-authentication configuration</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_update_auth_account</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-l <replaceable>acLogin</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>authSystemId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to update a local user-authentication configuration in VISHNU. Only 
the local user's login in the user-authentication system can be updated.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>represents an admin option to add a user-authentication account of a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-l <replaceable>acLogin</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option to change the login of the user on the associated user-authentication system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication account is unknown&quot; [52]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To change the uid  of a local user-authentication configuration to aramis whose user-authentication system is AUTHENLDAP_1: </para>
        <para>vishnu_update_auth_account -l aramis AUTHENLDAP_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_delete_auth_account</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_delete_auth_account</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes a local user-authentication configuration from VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_delete_auth_account</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>authSystemId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to remove a local user-authentication configuration from VISHNU.
The required parameters are : the VISHNU user identifier, the user-authentication system identifier and the uid of the user on the corresponding user-authentication system</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option which represents the VISHNU identifier of the user whose local user-authentication configuration will be deleted.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication account is unknown&quot; [52]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To remove a local user-authentication configuration whose user-authentication system is AUTHENLDAP_1: </para>
        <para>vishnu_delete_auth_account AUTHENLDAP_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_auth_accounts</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_auth_accounts</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists local user-authentication configurations</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_auth_accounts</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-a</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-i <replaceable>authSystemId</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to list local user-authentication configurations of VISHNU.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>listAll</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing all local user-authentication configurations of VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an admin option for listing all local user-authentication configurations of a specific user identified by his/her userId.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-i <replaceable>authSystemId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>is an option for listing local user-configuration of a specific user-authentication system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication account is unknown&quot; [52]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To list local user-authentication configurations: </para>
        <para>vishnu_list_auth_accounts</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_set_ssh_key</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_set_ssh_key</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to add or remove a given key to/from the authorized keys of a user's remote account.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_set_ssh_key</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-a</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-r</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>rlogin</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>sshPubKey</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to add or remove a given key to/from the authorized keys of a user's remote account</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>addOption</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>option for adding a key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-r <replaceable>removeOption</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>option for removing a key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The name of the user option is unknown&quot; [41]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To add the public key located localy at $HOME/.ssh/rsa_id.pub to the authorized_keys of the user tartampion on the machine named slurm.intranet.lan : </para>
        <para>vishnu_set_ssh_key -a $HOME/.ssh/rsa_id.pub tartampion@slurm.intranet.lan</para>
        <para>To remote the key added previously:</para>
        <para>vishnu_set_ssh_key -r $HOME/.ssh/rsa_id.pub tartampion@slurm.intranet.lan</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>TMS Command reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_submit_job</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_submit_job</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to submit a job consisting in running a given script on a machine.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_submit_job</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-n <replaceable>name</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-q <replaceable>queue</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>wallTime</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-m <replaceable>memory</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-P <replaceable>nbCpu</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-N <replaceable>nbNodesAndCpuPerNode</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-o <replaceable>outputPath</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-e <replaceable>errorPath</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-M <replaceable>mailNotification</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>mailNotifyUser</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-g <replaceable>group</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-D <replaceable>workingDir</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-T <replaceable>cpuTime</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-Q</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-L <replaceable>loadType</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-F <replaceable>fileParams</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-V <replaceable>textParams</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-w <replaceable>workId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-S <replaceable>specificParams</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-p</option></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>scriptFilePath</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to submit a job to the specific batch scheduler associated to a machine. It allows describing a job in a script, using either the batch scheduler's directives or VISHNU's generic directives for all batch schedulers.
If the machine identifier is equal to autom, the job will be automatically submitted on a best machine (for now three criterions are  used: minimum number of waiting jobs, minimum number of running jobs and the total number of jobs) through the use of a script (scriptFilePath) which must be generic script  using  VISHNU's generic directives for all batch schedulers</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-n <replaceable>name</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Assigns a job name. The default is the path of job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-q <replaceable>queue</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Assigns the queue or class of the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>wallTime</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The maximum wall-clock time during which the job can run (in seconds).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-m <replaceable>memory</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Is the memory size that the job requires (in MegaBytes).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-P <replaceable>nbCpu</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The number of cpu per node that the job requires.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-N <replaceable>nbNodesAndCpuPerNode</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The number of nodes and processors per node (in the format nbNodes:nbCpuPerNode). For example if you want to use 4 nodes with 3 cpus for each node, you must specify these numbers by &quot;4:3&quot;.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-o <replaceable>outputPath</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Assigns the path and file for job output.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-e <replaceable>errorPath</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Assigns the path and file for job error.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-M <replaceable>mailNotification</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Assigns the notification type of the job. Valid type values are BEGIN, END, ERROR, and ALL (any state change).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>mailNotifyUser</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The name of user to receive email notification of state changes as defined by the option mailNotification. The default value is the submitting user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-g <replaceable>group</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Assigns a job group name..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-D <replaceable>workingDir</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Assigns a job remote working dir.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-T <replaceable>cpuTime</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Assigns a job cpu limit time (in seconds or in the format [[HH:]MM:]SS).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-Q <replaceable>selectQueueAutom</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows to select automatically a queue which has the number of nodes requested by the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-L <replaceable>loadType</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The criterion to automatically submit a job (for now three criterions are used: minimum number of waiting jobs, minimum number of running jobs and the total number of jobs). This option is used only if the machine identifier is equal to autom (this keyword is used to submit automatically a job).
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (USE_NB_WAITING_JOBS), 1 (USE_NB_JOBS), 2 (USE_NB_RUNNING_JOBS).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-F <replaceable>fileParams</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Sets a list of local files as parameters for the script.  
These files will be  uploaded onto the server before computing the script. At the execution time,  each path can be accessed through an environment variable.
E.g. --fileParams &quot;PFILE1=/path/to/file1 PFILE2=/path/to/file2&quot; or -F &quot;PFILE1=/path/to/file1 PFILE2=/path/to/file2&quot;.
At the execution, the environment variable $PFILE1, for example, will point to the uploaded copy of the file /path/to/file1. 

The option --fileParam or -f allows to set each file individually.

NOTE: The name of parameter as well as those of the corresponding environment are case-insensitive.
.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-V <replaceable>textParams</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Sets a list of parameters for the script so at the execution, each of parameter can be used as an environment variable.
E.g. --textParams &quot;PARAM1=value1 PARAM2=value2&quot; or -F &quot;PARAM1=value1 PARAM2=value2&quot;, will set the environment variables named PARAM1 and PARAM2 with value1 and value2, respectively. 

The option --textParam or -v allows to set each file individually.

NOTE: The name of parameter as well as those of the corresponding environment are case-insensitive..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-w <replaceable>workId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Sets the identifier of the Work to which the job is related.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-S <replaceable>specificParams</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Sets a list of specific parameters for the batch scheduler so at the job submition, each of parameter can be used by the batch shcheduler.
E.g. --specificParams &quot;PARAM1=value1 PARAM2=value2&quot; or -S &quot;PARAM1=value1  PARAM2=value2&quot;, will set the batch parameter named PARAM1 and PARAM2 with value1 and value2, respectively. 

NOTE: The name of parameter as well as those of the corresponding environment are case-insensitive..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-p <replaceable>posix</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows to submit on the shell instead of using the batch scheduler.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="job output environment variables">
        <title>JOB OUTPUT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES</title>
        <para>The VISHNU Job Manager set the following variables in the environment of the batch script.</para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_BATCHJOB_ID</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set the  identifier assigned to the job by the batch system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_BATCHJOB_NAME</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set the name of the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_SUBMIT_MACHINE_NAME</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set  the name of the machine on which the job has been submitted.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_BATCHJOB_NODEFILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set the name of the file contain the list of nodes assigned to the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_BATCHJOB_NUM_NODES</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set the total number of nodes in the job's resource allocation.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_OUTPUT_DIR</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Define a generic directory where files generated by scripts can be stored in order to be get out easily via the appropriate VISHNU commands (vishnu_get_output, vishnu_get_completed_jobs_output). The directory is really set at the execution time with a directory automatically generated within the job's working directory.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Error invalid parameters&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The work id is unknown&quot; [109]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To submit on machine_1 the script toto:</para>
        <para>vishnu_submit_job machine_1 toto</para>
        <para>To submit automatically the script toto on the best machine (by the default the machine which has the minimum number of waiting jobs is selected):</para>
        <para>vishnu_submit_job autom toto</para>
        <para>To submit automatically the script toto on the best machine by using a machine which has the minimum total number of jobs:</para>
        <para>vishnu_submit_job autom toto -L 1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_get_job_info</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_get_job_info</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets information on a job from its id</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_get_job_info</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>jobId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting information about a specific job. It can return the job's status, for example.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get the info on the job J_1 on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_get_job_info machine_1 J_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_get_job_progress</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_get_job_progress</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets the progression status of jobs</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_get_job_progress</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-i <replaceable>jobId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>jobOwner</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting the progression status of a job based on the wall-clock time specified.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-i <replaceable>jobId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Specifies the id of the job whose progression the user wants to see..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>jobOwner</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Specifies the owner of the job..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get the progress of the job J_1 on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_get_job_progress machine_1 -i J_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_queues</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_queues</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets queues information</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_queues</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-q <replaceable>queueName</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command displays the status of the queues of a specific machine's batch scheduler.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-q <replaceable>queueName</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>if it is given, listQueues gives information only of this queue.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To list the queues available on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_queues machine_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_jobs</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_jobs</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets a list of all submitted jobs on a machine.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_jobs</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-i <replaceable>jobId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-P <replaceable>nbCpu</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-d <replaceable>fromSubmitDate</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-D <replaceable>toSubmitDate</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>owner</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-s <replaceable>status</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-p <replaceable>priority</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-q <replaceable>queue</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-S <replaceable>multipleStatus</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-b</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-w <replaceable>workId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-l</option></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows displaying the jobs submitted on a specific machine's batch scheduler. If machine identifier is equal to all, submitted jobs on all machines are listed</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-i <replaceable>jobId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists the job with the specified id.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-P <replaceable>nbCpu</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists the jobs with the specified number of CPUs per node.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-d <replaceable>fromSubmitDate</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists the jobs submitted after the specified date (UNIX timestamp).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-D <replaceable>toSubmitDate</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists jobs submitted before the specified date (UNIX timestamp).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>owner</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists the jobs submitted by the specified owner.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-s <replaceable>status</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists the jobs with the specified status.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: -1 (UNDEFINED), 1 (SUBMITTED), 2 (QUEUED), 3 (WAITING), 4 (RUNNING), 5 (COMPLETED), 6 (CANCELLED), 7 (ALREADY_DOWNLOADED).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-p <replaceable>priority</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists the jobs with the specified priority.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: -1 (UNDEFINED), 1 (VERY_LOW), 2 (LOW), 3 (NORMAL), 4 (HIGH), 5 (VERY_HIGH).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-q <replaceable>queue</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the jobs with the specified queue name.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-S <replaceable>multipleStatus</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists the jobs with the specified status (combination of multiple status). Its format contains  the first letter or the value (interger) of each chosen status. For exemple to list the cancelled and terminated jobs,  you use the format CT or 65.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-b <replaceable>batchJob</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows to select all jobs submitted  through the underlying batch scheduler  (jobs submitted through vishnu and out of vishnu).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-w <replaceable>workId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Allows to gather information about jobs related to a given Work..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-l <replaceable>listAll</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>lists all information of the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To list the jobs on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_jobs machine_1</para>
        <para>To list submitted jobs on all machines:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_jobs all</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_get_job_output</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_get_job_output</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets standard output and error output files of a job given its id</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_get_job_output</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-o <replaceable>outDir</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>jobId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting a job's output files.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-o <replaceable>outDir</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The output directory where the files will be stored (default is current directory).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The job is not terminated&quot; [107]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The job is already downloaded&quot; [108]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get the output of the job J_1 on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_get_job_output machine_1 J_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_get_completed_jobs_output</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_get_completed_jobs_output</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets standard output and error output files of completed jobs (applies only once for each job)</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_get_completed_jobs_output</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-o <replaceable>outDir</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting the output files of all the completed jobs.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-o <replaceable>outDir</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Specifies the output directory where the files will be stored (by default, the current directory).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get the completed job on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_get_completed_jobs_output machine_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_cancel_job</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_cancel_job</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to cancel a job submitted on a given machine.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_cancel_job</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>jobId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>cancels a job from its id. If job id is equal to all, all submitted jobs by all users will be cancelled if the user is an administrator, and only jobs submitted by the user will be cancelled if the user is not an administrator.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The job is already terminated&quot; [105]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The job is already canceled&quot; [106]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To cancel the submission of the job J_1 on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_cancel_job machine_1 J_1</para>
        <para>To cancel cancel all submitted jobs on machine_1</para>
        <para>vishnu_cancel_job machine_1 all</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_add_work</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_add_work</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to create a work consisting in running jobs.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_add_work</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-a <replaceable>applicationId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-n <replaceable>subject</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-l <replaceable>priority</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>owner</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-e <replaceable>estimatedHour</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-d <replaceable>description</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-p <replaceable>projectId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-m <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-n <replaceable>nbCPU</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command adds a work in vishnu</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>applicationId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Is the id of the machine on which the job has been submitted..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-n <replaceable>subject</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Represents the name assigned to the work..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-l <replaceable>priority</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Represents the work priority. .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>owner</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Represents the job owner..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-e <replaceable>estimatedHour</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Is the maximum wall-clock time during which the job can run (in seconds).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-d <replaceable>description</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Is the textual description of the job..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-p <replaceable>projectId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Is the id of the session that contained the job submission command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-m <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Is the id of the session that contained the job submission command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-n <replaceable>nbCPU</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The current status of the job..</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="job output environment variables">
        <title>JOB OUTPUT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES</title>
        <para>The VISHNU Job Manager set the following variables in the environment of the batch script.</para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_BATCHJOB_ID</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set the  identifier assigned to the job by the batch system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_BATCHJOB_NAME</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set the name of the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_SUBMIT_MACHINE_NAME</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set  the name of the machine on which the job has been submitted.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_BATCHJOB_NODEFILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set the name of the file contain the list of nodes assigned to the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_BATCHJOB_NUM_NODES</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Set the total number of nodes in the job's resource allocation.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_OUTPUT_DIR</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Define a generic directory where files generated by scripts can be stored in order to be get out easily via the appropriate VISHNU commands (vishnu_get_output, vishnu_get_completed_jobs_output). The directory is really set at the execution time with a directory automatically generated within the job's working directory.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Error invalid parameters&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To add a work called toto:</para>
        <para>vishnu_add_work toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>FMS Command reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_touch</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_touch</refname>
        <refpurpose>creates  files on  remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_touch</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Creates an empty file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To create the file toto on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_touch machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_mkdir</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_mkdir</refname>
        <refpurpose>creates directories on remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_mkdir</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-p</option></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Creates an new directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-p <replaceable>isRecursive</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies when the create command is recursive (create parent directory also) or not.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To create the repository toto on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_mkdir machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_rm</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_rm</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes files from  remote hosts.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_rm</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-r</option></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Deletes a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-r <replaceable>isRecursive</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies when the remove command is recursive (case of directory) or not.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To remove the file toto on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_rm machine_1:/tmp/toto </para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_rmdir</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_rmdir</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes  directories (and subdirectories) from  remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_rmdir</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Deletes a directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To remove the repository toto on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_rmdir machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_chgrp</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_chgrp</refname>
        <refpurpose>changes group owner of  remote files/directories. </refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_chgrp</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>group</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Changes the group attribute of a file or directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To change the group owner to  test of the file toto on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_chgrp test machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_chmod</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_chmod</refname>
        <refpurpose>changes  access rights of remote files/directories.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_chmod</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>mode</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Changes the permissions of a file or directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
The mode parameter is the same value as for the unix chmod command.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To change the access rights on file toto on machine_1 to all rights:</para>
        <para>vishnu_chmod 777 machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_head</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_head</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays a few first lines of  files located on  remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_head</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-n <replaceable>nline</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the first lines of a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-n <replaceable>nline</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the number of line to get.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To visualize the 3 first line on the file toto on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_head -n 3 machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_tail</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_tail</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays a few last lines of  files located on remote machines</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_tail</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-n <replaceable>nline</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the last lines of a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-n <replaceable>nline</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the number of line to get.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To vizualize the 3 last lines of the file toto on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_tail -n 3 machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_more</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_more</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays content  of  files located on remote machines</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_more</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the content of a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To view the content of the file toto on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_more machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_ls</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_ls</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays  the content of a remote directory</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_ls</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-l</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-a</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the content of a directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-l <replaceable>longFormat</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies the long display format (all available file informations).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-a <replaceable>allFiles</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Allows to display all files including hidden files.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To display the content of the toto repository on machine_1:</para>
        <para> vishnu_ls machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_cp</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_cp</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes a synchronous copy of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_cp</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-r</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>trCommand</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>src</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>dest</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Copy a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local copy cannot be handled by this command.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-r <replaceable>isRecursive</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies when the copy is recursive (case of directory) or not.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>trCommand</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the command to use to perform file transfer.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (SCP), 1 (RSYNC), 2 (UNDEFINED).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_TRANSFER_CMD</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies the command to use for all file transfers by default. It takes its values in the set {SCP,RSYNC}.. Overridden by the -t option.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To copy the file toto from machine_1 to machine_2 home directory: </para>
        <para>vishnu_cp machine_1:/tmp/toto machine_2:/home/vishnu/</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_acp</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_acp</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes an asynchronous copy of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_acp</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-r</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>trCommand</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>src</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>dest</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Initiates a copy of a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local copy cannot be handled by this command.
The command listFileTransfers can be used to check the status of the transfer after it is initiated, using the transfer id as the identifier.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-r <replaceable>isRecursive</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies when the copy is recursive (case of directory) or not.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>trCommand</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the command to use to perform file transfer.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (SCP), 1 (RSYNC), 2 (UNDEFINED).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_TRANSFER_CMD</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies the command to use for all file transfers by default. It takes its values in the set {SCP,RSYNC}.. Overridden by the -t option.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To copy using an asynchrone method the file toto from machine_1 to machine_2 home directory: </para>
        <para>vishnu_acp machine_1:/tmp/toto machine_2:/home/vishnu/</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_mv</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_mv</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes a synchronous move of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_mv</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-r</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>trCommand</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>src</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>dest</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Move a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local move cannot be handled by this command.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-r <replaceable>isRecursive</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies when the copy is recursive (case of directory) or not.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>trCommand</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the command to use to perform file transfer.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (SCP), 1 (RSYNC), 2 (UNDEFINED).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_TRANSFER_CMD</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies the command to use for all file transfers by default. It takes its values in the set {SCP,RSYNC}.. Overridden by the -t option.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To move the file toto from machine_1 to machine_2 home directory: </para>
        <para>vishnu_mv machine_1:/tmp/toto machine_2:/home/vishnu/</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_amv</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_amv</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes an asynchronous move of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_amv</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-r</option></arg><arg choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>trCommand</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>src</replaceable></arg><arg choice="plain"><replaceable>dest</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Initiates a move of a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local move cannot be handled by this command.
The command listFileTransfers can be used to check the status of the transfer after it is initiated, using the transfer id as the identifier.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-r <replaceable>isRecursive</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies when the copy is recursive (case of directory) or not.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>trCommand</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the command to use to perform file transfer.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (SCP), 1 (RSYNC), 2 (UNDEFINED).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_TRANSFER_CMD</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>It specifies the command to use for all file transfers by default. It takes its values in the set {SCP,RSYNC}.. Overridden by the -t option.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To move using an asynchronous method the file toto from machine_1 to machine_2 home directory: </para>
        <para>vishnu_amv machine_1:/tmp/toto machine_2:/home/vishnu/</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_stop_file_transfer</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_stop_file_transfer</refname>
        <refpurpose>stops an execution of a set of file transfers.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_stop_file_transfer</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-i <replaceable>transferId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-m <replaceable>fromMachineId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Cancels a file or directory transfer that has been initiated using a vishnu asynchronous copy or move file command.
The command listFileTransfers can be used to check the status of the transfer after it has been cancelled, using the transfer id as the identifier.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-i <replaceable>transferId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>a given transfer id.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-m <replaceable>fromMachineId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the machine that is the source or destination of the file transfer.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows an admin to stop file transfers of a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To stop the file transfers on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_stop_file_transfer -m machine_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_list_file_transfers</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_list_file_transfers</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the history of all file transfers submitted by User.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_list_file_transfers</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>transferId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-m <replaceable>fromMachineId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-s <replaceable>status</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Get the list of all file or directory transfers that have been initiated 
using a vishnu synchronous or asynchronous copy or move file command.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>transferId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>a given transfer id.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-m <replaceable>fromMachineId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the machine that is the source of the file transfer.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-u <replaceable>userId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>allows the admin to list file transfers initiated by a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-s <replaceable>status</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>the file transfer status.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (INPROGRESS), 1 (COMPLETED), 2 (CANCELLED), 3 (FAILED), 4 (UNDEFINED).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To list the file transfers on machine_1 for the user user_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_list_file_transfers -m machine_1 -u user_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_stat</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_stat</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the information  of  files.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_stat</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>path</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Get the details of a remote file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get the data concerning the file toto on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_stat machine_1:/tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>IMS Command reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_export_commands</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_export_commands</refname>
        <refpurpose>exports all the commands made by a user during a session</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_export_commands</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>exportType</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>oldSessionId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Exports all the VISHNU commands submitted during a completed session. This session must be in closed state.
The output of this command is a file containing a shell script. For safety reasons, the commands having a password for parameter are not exported
(for example the vishnu_connect and vishnu_change_password commands). This means the shell script must be run after opening
a session manually or by adding the vishnu_connect command to the script.
The access to other user's sessions is only permitted to administrators.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>exportType</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The type to export.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (UNDEFINED), 1 (SHELL).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To export the commands made during the session with id S01 in the file toto:</para>
        <para>vishnu_export_commands S01 /tmp/toto</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_get_metric_current_value</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_get_metric_current_value</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the current values of system metrics</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_get_metric_current_value</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>metricType</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the current values of the monitored metrics on the system identified by the machineId argument : cpuload, free diskspace and free memory. 
The units of displayed values are percentages for cpuload and Megabytes (Mb) for diskspace and memory. The provided values are always standard integers (no float values).
Please note that retrieving these values uses some valuable system ressources and should not occur too frequently to avoid an impact on system performance.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>metricType</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The type of the metric.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (UNDEFINED), 1 (CPUUSE), 2 (FREEDISKSPACE), 3 (FREEMEMORY).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get the current values of the metrics on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_get_metric_current_value machine_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_get_metric_history</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_get_metric_history</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the history of values of a system metric</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_get_metric_history</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-s <replaceable>startTime</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-e <replaceable>endTime</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-t <replaceable>type</replaceable></option></arg><arg
              choice="plain"><replaceable>machineId</replaceable></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the chronological list of values of the metrics on the system identified by the machineId argument. Using the options it is possible to specify a type of metric and the starting and ending dates of the desired monitoring period. Note that some data will be available only if the required VISHNU agent (IMS server) has been running locally on the machine during the specified period.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-s <replaceable>startTime</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The start time to get the history.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-e <replaceable>endTime</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The end time to get the history.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-t <replaceable>type</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The type of metric searched.
The value must be an integer. Predefined values are: 0 (UNDEFINED), 1 (CPUUSE), 2 (FREEDISKSPACE), 3 (FREEMEMORY).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get the history of the metrics on machine_1:</para>
        <para>vishnu_get_metric_history machine_1</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_get_update_frequency</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_get_update_frequency</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets the update frequency of the IMS database</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_get_update_frequency</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This function allows a user to get the update frequency, to know  how often the state of the machines is automatically polled to get historical data.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get the update frequency:</para>
        <para>vishnu_get_update_frequency</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnu_get_system_info</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnu_get_system_info</refname>
        <refpurpose>To get the system info on a machine</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <cmdsynopsis><command>vishnu_get_system_info</command><arg choice="opt"><option>-h</option></arg><arg
              choice="opt"><option>-m <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></arg></cmdsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This function allows a user to get system information about a machine. A system information describes a machine. The option is  the machine id (if no machine id, the information for all the machines are given)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="options">
        <title>OPTIONS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-h <replaceable>help</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>help about the command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><option>-m <replaceable>machineId</replaceable></option></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The machine id.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="environment">
        <title>ENVIRONMENT</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><envar>VISHNU_CONFIG_FILE</envar></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Contains the path to the local configuration file for VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="diagnostics">
        <title>DIAGNOSTICS</title>
        <para>The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr and the command will return the code provided within brackets: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;There is no open session in this terminal&quot; [13]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Missing parameters&quot; [14]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu initialization failed&quot; [15]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error&quot; [16]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="example">
        <title>EXAMPLE</title>
        <para>To get all the system info for all the machine:</para>
        <para>vishnu_get_system_info</para>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>UMS C++ API Reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>connect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>connect</refname>
        <refpurpose>opens a session</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::connect</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>userId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>password</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Session&amp; <parameter>session</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ConnectOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ConnectOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Opening a VISHNU session is the first step before using any other VISHNU command.
This command authenticates you. You must have been registered in the VISHNU system
by an administrator.  It also creates a session that remains open after the command is
completed and until the session is either manually or automatically closed.
The userId and password may be given through the options, or if no userId and password 
are specified, vishnu_connect will read them in the  .netrc file located in the home of the user. 
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. UserId represents the VISHNU user identifier.  If userId and password are empty, vishnu connect will read them in the .netrc file located in the home of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>password</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Password represents the password of the user. If userId and password are empty, vishnu connect will read them in the .netrc file located  in the home of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>session</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The session object that contains the created session details.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Options is an object which encapsulates the options available for the connect method. It allows the user to choose the way for closing the session automatically on TIMEOUT or on DISCONNECT and the possibility for an admin to open a session as he/she was a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The value of the timeout is incorrect&quot; [43]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>connect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>connect</refname>
        <refpurpose>opens a session by trying multiple couples (userId, password) each in turn</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::connect</function></funcdef><paramdef>const ListUsers&amp; <parameter>listUsers</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Session&amp; <parameter>session</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ConnectOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ConnectOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Opening a VISHNU session is the first step before using any other VISHNU command.
This command authenticates you. You must have been registered in the VISHNU system
by an administrator.  It also creates a session that remains open after the command is
completed and until the session is either manually or automatically closed.
It is possible to define multiple VISHNU couples (userId, password). In this case, 
vishnu_connect_m read them and tries each couple to make a connection. 
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listUsers</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The list containing one or more couple (userId and password) potentially usable for connection.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>session</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The session object that contains the created session details.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Options is an object which encapsulates the options available for the connect method. It allows the user to choose the way for closing the session automatically on TIMEOUT or on DISCONNECT and the possibility for an admin to open a session as he/she was a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The value of the timeout is incorrect&quot; [43]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>reconnect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>reconnect</refname>
        <refpurpose>reconnects to a session that is still active</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::reconnect</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>userId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>password</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Session&amp; <parameter>session</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows you to resume a session that has been opened previously and that has not yet
been closed. You can disconnect from a session without closing it (for example if there are running
commands in that session) by setting the session's close policy (at connection time) to CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT.
As sessions are linked to a specific client system, you cannot reconnect to a 
session that was opened on another client system.
The userId and password may be given through the options, or if no userId and password 
are specified, vishnu_reconnect will read them in the  .netrc file located in the home of the user.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. UserId represents the VISHNU user identifier.  If userId and password are empty, vishnu reconnect will read them in the .netrc file located in the home of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>password</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Password represents the password of the user.  If userId and password are empty, vishnu reconnect will read them in the .netrc file located in the home of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. SessionId is the identifier of the session defined in the database.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>session</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The session object containing session information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session Id is unknown&quot; [30]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine does not exist or it is locked&quot; [36]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>reconnect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>reconnect</refname>
        <refpurpose>reconnects to a session that is still active by trying multiple couples (userId, password) each in turn</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::reconnect</function></funcdef><paramdef>const ListUsers&amp; <parameter>listUsers</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Session&amp; <parameter>session</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows you to resume a session that has been opened previously and that has not yet
been closed. You can disconnect from a session without closing it (for example if there are running
commands in that session) by setting the session's close policy (at connection time) to CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT.
As sessions are linked to a specific client system, you cannot reconnect to a 
session that was opened on another client system.
The vishnu_reconnect_m tries in turn multiple couples (userId, password).</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listUsers</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The list containing one or more couple (userId and password) potentially usable for connection.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. SessionId is the identifier of the session defined in the database.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>session</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The session object containing session information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session Id is unknown&quot; [30]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine does not exist or it is locked&quot; [36]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>close</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>close</refname>
        <refpurpose>closes the session</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::close</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command closes the session that is currently active in the terminal. It will return
an error if there are still some active requests that were been submitted by the user during
the session (e.g., job submission or file transfers). After the session is closed, it cannot be re-opened.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Commands are running&quot; [31]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>changePassword</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>changePassword</refname>
        <refpurpose>changes the password</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::changePassword</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>userId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>password</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>passwordNew</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to change the password. It can be done voluntarily or when the password is only temporary:  for your first connection to VISHNU or after your password is reset  by an administrator . </para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. UserId represents the VISHNU user identifier.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>password</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Password represents the password of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>passwordNew</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. PasswordNew represents the new password of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;You can modify information. This account is read-only&quot; [54]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>addLocalAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>addLocalAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>adds a new local user configuration </refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::addLocalAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const LocalAccount&amp; <parameter>newAccount</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string&amp; <parameter>sshPublicKey</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>A local user configuration must be added to allow you (identified by userId) to connect to machine (identified by machineId).
This configuration must match an existing system account on that machine with a login that matches acLogin.
The parameters sshKeyPath parameter (the absolute path to your private SSH key, used for file transfers) must be provided as well as the
homeDirectory path .</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>newAccount</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. NewAccount is the object which encapsulates the new local user configuration.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sshPublicKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The SSH public key generated by VISHNU for accessing a local account.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine is locked&quot; [34]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine does not exist or it is locked&quot; [36]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account already exists&quot; [37]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The system account login is already used by another vishnu user&quot; [46]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>updateLocalAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>updateLocalAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>updates a local user configuration</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::updateLocalAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const LocalAccount&amp; <parameter>LocalAccUpd</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>The local user configuration can be updated. You can modify information of its local configuration such as acLogin, sshKeypath or homeDirectory.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>LocalAccUpd</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an object which encapsulates the local user configuration changes except the machineId and the userId.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The system account login is already used by another vishnu user&quot; [46]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>deleteLocalAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>deleteLocalAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes a local user configuration (for a given user on a given machine) from VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::deleteLocalAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>userId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>The local user configuration can be deleted from VISHNU. When a local user configuration is deleted, all the information about it is deleted from VISHNU.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. UserId represents the VISHNU user identifier of the user whose local configuration will be deleted for the given machine .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. MachineId represents the identifier of the machine whose local configuration will be deleted for the given user .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listLocalAccounts</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listLocalAccounts</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the local user configurations</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listLocalAccounts</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListLocalAccounts&amp; <parameter>listLocalAcct</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ListLocalAccOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ListLocalAccOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>A local configuration is used to configure the access to a given system for a
given user through VISHNU. It is related to an account on that system
that is identified using its login. This command allows you to check all the
local configurations related to your VISHNU account. </para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listLocalAcct</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListLocalAccount is the list of the local user configuations .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows an admin to list all local configurations of all users or a simple user to list his/her local user configurations on a specific machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listMachines</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listMachines</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the machines that are accessible through VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listMachines</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListMachines&amp; <parameter>listMachine</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ListMachineOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ListMachineOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to display the machines that you can use for VISHNU services.
The machines you can access through VISHNU are those that are configured in 
VISHNU by the VISHNU administrator, and that have been added to your personal
VISHNU configuration using the vishnu_add_local_account command.
The results contain, for each machine, a machine identifier that you can use as a parameter
for other VISHNU commands.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listMachine</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListLocalAccount is the list of the local configs .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows a user to list all VISHNU machines or information about a specific machine and an admin to list machines used by a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listHistoryCmd</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listHistoryCmd</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the commands</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listHistoryCmd</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListCommands&amp; <parameter>listCommands</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ListCmdOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ListCmdOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command displays a history of the commands you ran. Several options can be used to specify which commands to list.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listCommands</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListCommands is the list of commands.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows the user to list commands by using several optional criteria: a period, specific session and for admin to list all commands of all VISHNU users or commands from a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listOptions</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listOptions</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the options of the user</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listOptions</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListOptionsValues&amp; <parameter>listOptValues</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ListOptOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ListOptOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command displays the options you configured.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listOptValues</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListOptValues is an object which encapsulates the list of options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows the user to list a specific option or all default options values or for an admin to list options of a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The name of the user option is unknown&quot; [41]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listSessions</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listSessions</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists all sessions of the user</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listSessions</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListSessions&amp; <parameter>listsession</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ListSessionOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ListSessionOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to display and filter the list of all your sessions.
For each session, a session identifier is provided which you can use to
reconnect to a given session using the vishnu_reconnect command.
The session's status is either 0 (inactive) or 1 (active).</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listsession</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Listsession is the list of sessions .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows the user to list sessions using several optional criteria such as: the state of sessions (actives or inactives, by default, all sessions are listed), a period, a specific session or for admin to list all sessions of all users or sessions of a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>configureOption</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>configureOption</refname>
        <refpurpose>configures an option of the user</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::configureOption</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const OptionValue&amp; <parameter>optionValue</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Options in VISHNU corresponds to the parameters of some VISHNU commands 
(e.g., the close policy for vishnu_connect)
that can be preset in the user configuration stored by the VISHNU system. This
command is used to set the value of an option for the current user (the user who
opened the session).</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>optionValue</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The optionValue is an object which encapsulates the option information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The name of the user option is unknown&quot; [41]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The value of the timeout is incorrect&quot; [43]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The value of the transfer command is incorrect&quot; [44]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnuInitialize</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnuInitialize</refname>
        <refpurpose>initializes VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::vishnuInitialize</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>configPath</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Calling this function is required before calling any function of the VISHNU API. It initializes the connection to the VISHNU infrastructure.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>configPath</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. ConfigPath is the path of VISHNU configuration file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>vishnuFinalize</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>vishnuFinalize</refname>
        <refpurpose>allows a user to go out properly from VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::vishnuFinalize</function></funcdef><paramdef/></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Calling this function is necessary to free ressources consumed due to the VISHNU API</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listAuthSystems</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listAuthSystems</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists VISHNU user-authentification systems</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listAuthSystems</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListAuthSystems&amp; <parameter>listAuthSys</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ListAuthSysOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ListAuthSysOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to display all user-authentication systems. By default, the user-authentication systems where the user has a local user-authentication config are listed.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listAuthSys</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListAuthSys is the list of the user-authentication systems.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows an admin to list all user-authentication systems used by a specific user or a user to list all user-authentication systems declared in VISHNU (and not only those where a local user-authentication configs are defined). It also allows to list user-authentication systems of a specific type.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The type of the user-authentication system is unknown&quot; [47]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>addAuthAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>addAuthAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>adds a new local user-authentication configuration</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::addAuthAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const AuthAccount&amp; <parameter>authAccount</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to add a local user-authentication configuration in VISHNU.
The required parameters are : the VISHNU user identifier, the user-authentication system identifier and the uid of the user on the corresponding user-authentication system</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>authAccount</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an object which encapsulates the information of the local user-authentication configuration which will be added in VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The system account login is already used by another vishnu user&quot; [46]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication account already exists&quot; [51]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>updateAuthAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>updateAuthAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>updates a local user-authentication configuration</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::updateAuthAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const AuthAccount&amp; <parameter>authAccount</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to update a local user-authentication configuration in VISHNU. Only 
the local user's login in the user-authentication system can be updated.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>authAccount</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an object which encapsulates the information of the local user-authentication configuration which will be updated.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication account is unknown&quot; [52]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>deleteAuthAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>deleteAuthAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes a local user-authentication configuration from VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::deleteAuthAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>authSystemId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>userId = &quot;&quot;</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to remove a local user-authentication configuration from VISHNU.
The required parameters are : the VISHNU user identifier, the user-authentication system identifier and the uid of the user on the corresponding user-authentication system</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>authSystemId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. AuthSystemId is the identifier of the user-authentication system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an admin option which represents the VISHNU identifier of the user whose local user-authentication configuration will be deleted.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication account is unknown&quot; [52]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listAuthAccounts</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listAuthAccounts</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists local user-authentication configurations</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listAuthAccounts</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListAuthAccounts&amp; <parameter>listAuthAccounts</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ListAuthAccOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ListAuthAccOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to list local user-authentication configurations of VISHNU.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listAuthAccounts</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Is the list of the local user-authentication configurations.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows an admin to list all local user-authentication configurations or to list local user-authentication configurations of a specific user or for a user to list local user-authentication configuration defined for a specific user-authentication system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user-authentication account is unknown&quot; [52]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>TMS C++ API Reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>submitJob</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>submitJob</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to submit a job consisting in running a given script on a machine.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::submitJob</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>scriptFilePath</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Job&amp; <parameter>jobInfo</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const SubmitOptions&amp; <parameter>options = SubmitOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to submit a job to the specific batch scheduler associated to a machine. It allows describing a job in a script, using either the batch scheduler's directives or VISHNU's generic directives for all batch schedulers.
If the machine identifier is equal to autom, the job will be automatically submitted on a best machine (for now three criterions are  used: minimum number of waiting jobs, minimum number of running jobs and the total number of jobs) through the use of a script (scriptFilePath) which must be generic script  using  VISHNU's generic directives for all batch schedulers</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which the job must be submitted.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>scriptFilePath</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path to the file containing the characteristics (job command, and batch scheduler directive required or optional) of the job to submit.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobInfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The  Job object containing the output information (ex: jobId and jobPath) of the job to submit.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an instance of the class SubmitOptions. Each optional value is associated to a set operation (e.g: setNbCpu(...)) in the class SubmitOptions.  If no set operation is not called on the instance object  options, the job is submitted with the options defined in the scriptFilePath. Otherewise the job is submitted with the optional values set by the options object and optional values defined in the scriptFilePath, but optional values set by SubmitOptions object take precedence over those in scriptFilePath. With in the object options or within the scriptFilePath, the last occurance of an optional value takes precedence over earlier occurance.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Error invalid parameters&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The work id is unknown&quot; [109]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>getJobInfo</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>getJobInfo</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets information on a job from its id</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::getJobInfo</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>jobId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Job&amp; <parameter>jobInfos</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting information about a specific job. It can return the job's status, for example.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which  the job is running.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The id of the job .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobInfos</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The resulting information on the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>getJobProgress</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>getJobProgress</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets the progression status of jobs</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::getJobProgress</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListProgression&amp; <parameter>listProgress</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ProgressOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ProgressOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting the progression status of a job based on the wall-clock time specified.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine to get the jobs progression.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listProgress</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Is the object containing jobs progression information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an object containing the available options jobs for progression.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listQueues</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listQueues</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets queues information</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listQueues</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListQueues&amp; <parameter>listofQueues</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>queueName = string()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command displays the status of the queues of a specific machine's batch scheduler.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine that the user wants to list queues.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listofQueues</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The list of queues.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>queueName</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. If it is given, listQueues gives information only of this queue.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listJobs</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listJobs</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets a list of all submitted jobs on a machine.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listJobs</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListJobs&amp; <parameter>listOfJobs</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ListJobsOptions&amp; <parameter>options = ListJobsOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows displaying the jobs submitted on a specific machine's batch scheduler. If machine identifier is equal to all, submitted jobs on all machines are listed</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which  the jobs are running.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listOfJobs</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The constructed object list of jobs.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Additional options for jobs listing.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>getJobOutput</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>getJobOutput</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets standard output and error output files of a job given its id</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::getJobOutput</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>jobId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>JobResult&amp; <parameter>outputInfo</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>outDir = string()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting a job's output files.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Gets outputPath and errorPath of a job from its id.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The Id of the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>outputInfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The  Job object  containing the job output information (ex: outputPath and errorPath) of the job to submit.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>outDir</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The output directory where the files will be stored (default is current directory).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The job is not terminated&quot; [107]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The job is already downloaded&quot; [108]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>getCompletedJobsOutput</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>getCompletedJobsOutput</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets standard output and error output files of completed jobs (applies only once for each job)</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::getCompletedJobsOutput</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListJobResults&amp; <parameter>listOfResults</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>outDir = string()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting the output files of all the completed jobs.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which  the jobs are been submitted.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listOfResults</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Is the list of jobs results.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>outDir</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Specifies the output directory where the files will be stored (by default, the current directory).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>cancelJob</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>cancelJob</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to cancel a job submitted on a given machine.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::cancelJob</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>jobId</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>cancels a job from its id. If job id is equal to all, all submitted jobs by all users will be cancelled if the user is an administrator, and only jobs submitted by the user will be cancelled if the user is not an administrator.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which  the job is running.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The Id of the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The job is already terminated&quot; [105]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The job is already canceled&quot; [106]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>addWork</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>addWork</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to create a work consisting in running jobs.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::addWork</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Work&amp; <parameter>work</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const AddWorkOptions&amp; <parameter>option = AddWorkOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command adds a work in vishnu</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>work</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The work to add.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>option</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Options to add the work.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Error invalid parameters&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>FMS C++ API Reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>touch</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>touch</refname>
        <refpurpose>creates  files on  remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::touch</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Creates an empty file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file to create following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>mkdir</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>mkdir</refname>
        <refpurpose>creates directories on remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::mkdir</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const CreateDirOptions&amp; <parameter>options = CreateDirOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Creates an new directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  directory to create following the pattern  [host:]directory path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The create directory command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>rm</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>rm</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes files from  remote hosts.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::rm</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const RmFileOptions&amp; <parameter>options = RmFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Deletes a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file to remove following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The remove command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>rmdir</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>rmdir</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes  directories (and subdirectories) from  remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::rmdir</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Deletes a directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  directory to remove following the pattern  [host:]directory path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>chgrp</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>chgrp</refname>
        <refpurpose>changes group owner of  remote files/directories. </refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::chgrp</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>group</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Changes the group attribute of a file or directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>group</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The new group owner of file/directory.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file/directory following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>chmod</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>chmod</refname>
        <refpurpose>changes  access rights of remote files/directories.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::chmod</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const mode_t&amp; <parameter>mode</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Changes the permissions of a file or directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
The mode parameter is the same value as for the unix chmod command.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>mode</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument.  the access rigths of file/directory in octal system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file/directory following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>head</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>head</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays a few first lines of  files located on  remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::head</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string&amp; <parameter>fileContent</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const HeadOfFileOptions&amp; <parameter>options = HeadOfFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the first lines of a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file  following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileContent</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The first &quot;nLine&quot; lines of the file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  head commandoptions.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>tail</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>tail</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays a few last lines of  files located on remote machines</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::tail</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string&amp; <parameter>fileContent</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const TailOfFileOptions&amp; <parameter>options = TailOfFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the last lines of a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file  following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileContent</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The last &quot;nLine&quot; lines of the file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The tail command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>more</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>more</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays content  of  files located on remote machines</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::more</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string&amp; <parameter>fileContent</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the content of a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file to display following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileContent</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The content of the file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>ls</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>ls</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays  the content of a remote directory</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::ls</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>DirEntryList&amp; <parameter>dirContent</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const LsDirOptions&amp; <parameter>options</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the content of a directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  directory to list following the pattern  [host:]directory path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dirContent</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The content of the directory.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. List of options for the ls command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>cp</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>cp</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes a synchronous copy of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::cp</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>src</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>dest</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const CpFileOptions&amp; <parameter>options = CpFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Copy a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local copy cannot be handled by this command.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>src</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  source file to copy following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dest</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path of the destination file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The copy options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>acp</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>acp</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes an asynchronous copy of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::acp</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>src</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>dest</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>FileTransfer&amp; <parameter>transferInfo</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const CpFileOptions&amp; <parameter>options</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Initiates a copy of a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local copy cannot be handled by this command.
The command listFileTransfers can be used to check the status of the transfer after it is initiated, using the transfer id as the identifier.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>src</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The source file to copy following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dest</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path of the destination file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>transferInfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. A file tranfer identifier (allowing for instance  to ckeck the status of a file transfer, or to cancel it).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The copy options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>mv</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>mv</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes a synchronous move of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::mv</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>src</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>dest</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const CpFileOptions&amp; <parameter>options</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Move a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local move cannot be handled by this command.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>src</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  source file to move following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dest</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path of the destination file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The move command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>amv</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>amv</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes an asynchronous move of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::amv</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>src</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>dest</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>FileTransfer&amp; <parameter>transferInfo</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const CpFileOptions&amp; <parameter>options = CpFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Initiates a move of a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local move cannot be handled by this command.
The command listFileTransfers can be used to check the status of the transfer after it is initiated, using the transfer id as the identifier.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>src</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The source file to move following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dest</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path of the destination file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>transferInfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. A file tranfer identifier (allowing for instance  to ckeck the status of a file transfer, or to cancel it).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The transfer command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>stopFileTransfer</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>stopFileTransfer</refname>
        <refpurpose>stops an execution of a set of file transfers.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::stopFileTransfer</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const StopTransferOptions&amp; <parameter>options = StopTransferOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Cancels a file or directory transfer that has been initiated using a vishnu asynchronous copy or move file command.
The command listFileTransfers can be used to check the status of the transfer after it has been cancelled, using the transfer id as the identifier.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The stop file transfer command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>listFileTransfers</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>listFileTransfers</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the history of all file transfers submitted by User.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::listFileTransfers</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>FileTransferList&amp; <parameter>fileTransferList</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const LsTransferOptions&amp; <parameter>options = LsTransferOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Get the list of all file or directory transfers that have been initiated 
using a vishnu synchronous or asynchronous copy or move file command.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileTransferList</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The file transfer list.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The filter options  .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>stat</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>stat</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the information  of  files.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::stat</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>FileStat&amp; <parameter>filesinfo</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Get the details of a remote file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The file whose inode information will be displayed.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>filesinfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The  inode information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>IMS C++ API Reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>exportCommands</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>exportCommands</refname>
        <refpurpose>exports all the commands made by a user during a session</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::exportCommands</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>oldSessionId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string&amp; <parameter>filename</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const ExportOp&amp; <parameter>options = ExportOp()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Exports all the VISHNU commands submitted during a completed session. This session must be in closed state.
The output of this command is a file containing a shell script. For safety reasons, the commands having a password for parameter are not exported
(for example the vishnu_connect and vishnu_change_password commands). This means the shell script must be run after opening
a session manually or by adding the vishnu_connect command to the script.
The access to other user's sessions is only permitted to administrators.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>oldSessionId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The id of the session to export (session has ended).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>filename</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input/Output argument. The path of the output file containing the Vishnu shell commands.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Options which encapsulate the option for the export.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>getMetricCurrentValue</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>getMetricCurrentValue</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the current values of system metrics</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::getMetricCurrentValue</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListMetric&amp; <parameter>metricValue</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const CurMetricOp&amp; <parameter>options</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the current values of the monitored metrics on the system identified by the machineId argument : cpuload, free diskspace and free memory. 
The units of displayed values are percentages for cpuload and Megabytes (Mb) for diskspace and memory. The provided values are always standard integers (no float values).
Please note that retrieving these values uses some valuable system ressources and should not occur too frequently to avoid an impact on system performance.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The id of the machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>metricValue</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Value of the metric.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The options for the current metric value.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>getMetricHistory</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>getMetricHistory</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the history of values of a system metric</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::getMetricHistory</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListMetric&amp; <parameter>metricValues</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const MetricHistOp&amp; <parameter>options = MetricHistOp()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the chronological list of values of the metrics on the system identified by the machineId argument. Using the options it is possible to specify a type of metric and the starting and ending dates of the desired monitoring period. Note that some data will be available only if the required VISHNU agent (IMS server) has been running locally on the machine during the specified period.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The id of the machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>metricValues</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. List of metric values.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The optional fields for the metric history.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>getUpdateFrequency</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>getUpdateFrequency</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets the update frequency of the IMS database</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::getUpdateFrequency</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>int&amp; <parameter>freq</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This function allows a user to get the update frequency, to know  how often the state of the machines is automatically polled to get historical data.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>freq</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Frequency the data are updated, in second.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>getSystemInfo</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>getSystemInfo</refname>
        <refpurpose>To get the system info on a machine</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef>int <function>vishnu::getSystemInfo</function></funcdef><paramdef>const string&amp; <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListSysInfo&amp; <parameter>res</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>const SysInfoOp&amp; <parameter>options = SysInfoOp()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This function allows a user to get system information about a machine. A system information describes a machine. The option is  the machine id (if no machine id, the information for all the machines are given)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>res</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The list of the system information gotten.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Optional field for system information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29]</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>UMS Python API Reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.connect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.connect</refname>
        <refpurpose>opens a session</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.connect</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>userId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>password</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Session <parameter>session</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ConnectOptions <parameter>options = ConnectOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Opening a VISHNU session is the first step before using any other VISHNU command.
This command authenticates you. You must have been registered in the VISHNU system
by an administrator.  It also creates a session that remains open after the command is
completed and until the session is either manually or automatically closed.
The userId and password may be given through the options, or if no userId and password 
are specified, vishnu_connect will read them in the  .netrc file located in the home of the user. 
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. UserId represents the VISHNU user identifier.  If userId and password are empty, vishnu connect will read them in the .netrc file located in the home of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>password</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Password represents the password of the user. If userId and password are empty, vishnu connect will read them in the .netrc file located  in the home of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>session</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The session object that contains the created session details.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Options is an object which encapsulates the options available for the connect method. It allows the user to choose the way for closing the session automatically on TIMEOUT or on DISCONNECT and the possibility for an admin to open a session as he/she was a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The value of the timeout is incorrect&quot; [43])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.connect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.connect</refname>
        <refpurpose>opens a session by trying multiple couples (userId, password) each in turn</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.connect</function></funcdef><paramdef>ListUsers <parameter>listUsers</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Session <parameter>session</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ConnectOptions <parameter>options = ConnectOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Opening a VISHNU session is the first step before using any other VISHNU command.
This command authenticates you. You must have been registered in the VISHNU system
by an administrator.  It also creates a session that remains open after the command is
completed and until the session is either manually or automatically closed.
It is possible to define multiple VISHNU couples (userId, password). In this case, 
vishnu_connect_m read them and tries each couple to make a connection. 
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listUsers</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The list containing one or more couple (userId and password) potentially usable for connection.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>session</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The session object that contains the created session details.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Options is an object which encapsulates the options available for the connect method. It allows the user to choose the way for closing the session automatically on TIMEOUT or on DISCONNECT and the possibility for an admin to open a session as he/she was a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The value of the timeout is incorrect&quot; [43])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.reconnect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.reconnect</refname>
        <refpurpose>reconnects to a session that is still active</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.reconnect</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>userId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>password</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Session <parameter>session</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows you to resume a session that has been opened previously and that has not yet
been closed. You can disconnect from a session without closing it (for example if there are running
commands in that session) by setting the session's close policy (at connection time) to CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT.
As sessions are linked to a specific client system, you cannot reconnect to a 
session that was opened on another client system.
The userId and password may be given through the options, or if no userId and password 
are specified, vishnu_reconnect will read them in the  .netrc file located in the home of the user.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. UserId represents the VISHNU user identifier.  If userId and password are empty, vishnu reconnect will read them in the .netrc file located in the home of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>password</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Password represents the password of the user.  If userId and password are empty, vishnu reconnect will read them in the .netrc file located in the home of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. SessionId is the identifier of the session defined in the database.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>session</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The session object containing session information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session Id is unknown&quot; [30])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine does not exist or it is locked&quot; [36])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.reconnect</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.reconnect</refname>
        <refpurpose>reconnects to a session that is still active by trying multiple couples (userId, password) each in turn</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.reconnect</function></funcdef><paramdef>ListUsers <parameter>listUsers</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Session <parameter>session</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows you to resume a session that has been opened previously and that has not yet
been closed. You can disconnect from a session without closing it (for example if there are running
commands in that session) by setting the session's close policy (at connection time) to CLOSE_ON_TIMEOUT.
As sessions are linked to a specific client system, you cannot reconnect to a 
session that was opened on another client system.
The vishnu_reconnect_m tries in turn multiple couples (userId, password).</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listUsers</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The list containing one or more couple (userId and password) potentially usable for connection.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. SessionId is the identifier of the session defined in the database.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>session</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The session object containing session information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session Id is unknown&quot; [30])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine does not exist or it is locked&quot; [36])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.close</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.close</refname>
        <refpurpose>closes the session</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.close</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command closes the session that is currently active in the terminal. It will return
an error if there are still some active requests that were been submitted by the user during
the session (e.g., job submission or file transfers). After the session is closed, it cannot be re-opened.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;Commands are running&quot; [31])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.changePassword</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.changePassword</refname>
        <refpurpose>changes the password</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.changePassword</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>userId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>password</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>passwordNew</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to change the password. It can be done voluntarily or when the password is only temporary:  for your first connection to VISHNU or after your password is reset  by an administrator . </para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. UserId represents the VISHNU user identifier.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>password</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Password represents the password of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>passwordNew</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. PasswordNew represents the new password of the user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Authenticator error)&quot; [-1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is unknown or the password is wrong&quot; [20])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;You can modify information. This account is read-only&quot; [54])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.addLocalAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.addLocalAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>adds a new local user configuration </refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, sshPublicKey=VISHNU.addLocalAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>LocalAccount <parameter>newAccount</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>A local user configuration must be added to allow you (identified by userId) to connect to machine (identified by machineId).
This configuration must match an existing system account on that machine with a login that matches acLogin.
The parameters sshKeyPath parameter (the absolute path to your private SSH key, used for file transfers) must be provided as well as the
homeDirectory path .</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>newAccount</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. NewAccount is the object which encapsulates the new local user configuration.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sshPublicKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The SSH public key generated by VISHNU for accessing a local account.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sshPublicKey(string)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The SSH public key generated by VISHNU for accessing a local account</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine is locked&quot; [34])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine does not exist or it is locked&quot; [36])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account already exists&quot; [37])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The system account login is already used by another vishnu user&quot; [46])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.updateLocalAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.updateLocalAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>updates a local user configuration</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.updateLocalAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>LocalAccount <parameter>LocalAccUpd</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>The local user configuration can be updated. You can modify information of its local configuration such as acLogin, sshKeypath or homeDirectory.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>LocalAccUpd</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an object which encapsulates the local user configuration changes except the machineId and the userId.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The system account login is already used by another vishnu user&quot; [46])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.deleteLocalAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.deleteLocalAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes a local user configuration (for a given user on a given machine) from VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.deleteLocalAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>userId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>The local user configuration can be deleted from VISHNU. When a local user configuration is deleted, all the information about it is deleted from VISHNU.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. UserId represents the VISHNU user identifier of the user whose local configuration will be deleted for the given machine .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. MachineId represents the identifier of the machine whose local configuration will be deleted for the given user .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listLocalAccounts</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listLocalAccounts</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the local user configurations</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listLocalAcct=VISHNU.listLocalAccounts</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListLocalAccOptions <parameter>options = ListLocalAccOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>A local configuration is used to configure the access to a given system for a
given user through VISHNU. It is related to an account on that system
that is identified using its login. This command allows you to check all the
local configurations related to your VISHNU account. </para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listLocalAcct</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListLocalAccount is the list of the local user configuations .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows an admin to list all local configurations of all users or a simple user to list his/her local user configurations on a specific machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listMachines</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listMachines</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the machines that are accessible through VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listMachine=VISHNU.listMachines</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListMachineOptions <parameter>options = ListMachineOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to display the machines that you can use for VISHNU services.
The machines you can access through VISHNU are those that are configured in 
VISHNU by the VISHNU administrator, and that have been added to your personal
VISHNU configuration using the vishnu_add_local_account command.
The results contain, for each machine, a machine identifier that you can use as a parameter
for other VISHNU commands.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listMachine</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListLocalAccount is the list of the local configs .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows a user to list all VISHNU machines or information about a specific machine and an admin to list machines used by a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listHistoryCmd</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listHistoryCmd</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the commands</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listCommands=VISHNU.listHistoryCmd</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListCmdOptions <parameter>options = ListCmdOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command displays a history of the commands you ran. Several options can be used to specify which commands to list.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listCommands</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListCommands is the list of commands.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows the user to list commands by using several optional criteria: a period, specific session and for admin to list all commands of all VISHNU users or commands from a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listOptions</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listOptions</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists the options of the user</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listOptValues=VISHNU.listOptions</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListOptOptions <parameter>options = ListOptOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command displays the options you configured.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listOptValues</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListOptValues is an object which encapsulates the list of options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows the user to list a specific option or all default options values or for an admin to list options of a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The name of the user option is unknown&quot; [41])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listSessions</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listSessions</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists all sessions of the user</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listsession=VISHNU.listSessions</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListSessionOptions <parameter>options = ListSessionOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to display and filter the list of all your sessions.
For each session, a session identifier is provided which you can use to
reconnect to a given session using the vishnu_reconnect command.
The session's status is either 0 (inactive) or 1 (active).</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listsession</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Listsession is the list of sessions .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows the user to list sessions using several optional criteria such as: the state of sessions (actives or inactives, by default, all sessions are listed), a period, a specific session or for admin to list all sessions of all users or sessions of a specific user.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.configureOption</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.configureOption</refname>
        <refpurpose>configures an option of the user</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.configureOption</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>OptionValue <parameter>optionValue</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Options in VISHNU corresponds to the parameters of some VISHNU commands 
(e.g., the close policy for vishnu_connect)
that can be preset in the user configuration stored by the VISHNU system. This
command is used to set the value of an option for the current user (the user who
opened the session).</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>optionValue</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The optionValue is an object which encapsulates the option information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The name of the user option is unknown&quot; [41])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The closure policy is unknown&quot; [42])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The value of the timeout is incorrect&quot; [43])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The value of the transfer command is incorrect&quot; [44])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.vishnuInitialize</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.vishnuInitialize</refname>
        <refpurpose>initializes VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.vishnuInitialize</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>configPath</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Calling this function is required before calling any function of the VISHNU API. It initializes the connection to the VISHNU infrastructure.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>configPath</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. ConfigPath is the path of VISHNU configuration file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.vishnuFinalize</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.vishnuFinalize</refname>
        <refpurpose>allows a user to go out properly from VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.vishnuFinalize</function></funcdef><paramdef/></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Calling this function is necessary to free ressources consumed due to the VISHNU API</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listAuthSystems</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listAuthSystems</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists VISHNU user-authentification systems</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listAuthSys=VISHNU.listAuthSystems</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListAuthSysOptions <parameter>options = ListAuthSysOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to display all user-authentication systems. By default, the user-authentication systems where the user has a local user-authentication config are listed.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listAuthSys</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. ListAuthSys is the list of the user-authentication systems.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows an admin to list all user-authentication systems used by a specific user or a user to list all user-authentication systems declared in VISHNU (and not only those where a local user-authentication configs are defined). It also allows to list user-authentication systems of a specific type.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The type of the user-authentication system is unknown&quot; [47])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.addAuthAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.addAuthAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>adds a new local user-authentication configuration</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.addAuthAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>AuthAccount <parameter>authAccount</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to add a local user-authentication configuration in VISHNU.
The required parameters are : the VISHNU user identifier, the user-authentication system identifier and the uid of the user on the corresponding user-authentication system</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>authAccount</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an object which encapsulates the information of the local user-authentication configuration which will be added in VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The system account login is already used by another vishnu user&quot; [46])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user-authentication account already exists&quot; [51])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.updateAuthAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.updateAuthAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>updates a local user-authentication configuration</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.updateAuthAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>AuthAccount <parameter>authAccount</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to update a local user-authentication configuration in VISHNU. Only 
the local user's login in the user-authentication system can be updated.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>authAccount</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an object which encapsulates the information of the local user-authentication configuration which will be updated.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user-authentication account is unknown&quot; [52])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.deleteAuthAccount</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.deleteAuthAccount</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes a local user-authentication configuration from VISHNU</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.deleteAuthAccount</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>authSystemId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>userId = &quot;&quot;</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to remove a local user-authentication configuration from VISHNU.
The required parameters are : the VISHNU user identifier, the user-authentication system identifier and the uid of the user on the corresponding user-authentication system</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>authSystemId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. AuthSystemId is the identifier of the user-authentication system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>userId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an admin option which represents the VISHNU identifier of the user whose local user-authentication configuration will be deleted.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user-authentication account is unknown&quot; [52])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listAuthAccounts</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listAuthAccounts</refname>
        <refpurpose>lists local user-authentication configurations</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listAuthAccounts=VISHNU.listAuthAccounts</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListAuthAccOptions <parameter>options = ListAuthAccOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows to list local user-authentication configurations of VISHNU.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The sessionKey is the encrypted identifier of the session generated by VISHNU.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listAuthAccounts</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Is the list of the local user-authentication configurations.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Allows an admin to list all local user-authentication configurations or to list local user-authentication configurations of a specific user or for a user to list local user-authentication configuration defined for a specific user-authentication system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is locked&quot; [23])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user-authentication system is unknown or locked&quot; [48])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user-authentication account is unknown&quot; [52])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>TMS Python API Reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.submitJob</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.submitJob</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to submit a job consisting in running a given script on a machine.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.submitJob</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>scriptFilePath</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Job <parameter>jobInfo</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>SubmitOptions <parameter>options = SubmitOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command is used to submit a job to the specific batch scheduler associated to a machine. It allows describing a job in a script, using either the batch scheduler's directives or VISHNU's generic directives for all batch schedulers.
If the machine identifier is equal to autom, the job will be automatically submitted on a best machine (for now three criterions are  used: minimum number of waiting jobs, minimum number of running jobs and the total number of jobs) through the use of a script (scriptFilePath) which must be generic script  using  VISHNU's generic directives for all batch schedulers</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which the job must be submitted.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>scriptFilePath</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path to the file containing the characteristics (job command, and batch scheduler directive required or optional) of the job to submit.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobInfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The  Job object containing the output information (ex: jobId and jobPath) of the job to submit.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an instance of the class SubmitOptions. Each optional value is associated to a set operation (e.g: setNbCpu(...)) in the class SubmitOptions.  If no set operation is not called on the instance object  options, the job is submitted with the options defined in the scriptFilePath. Otherewise the job is submitted with the optional values set by the options object and optional values defined in the scriptFilePath, but optional values set by SubmitOptions object take precedence over those in scriptFilePath. With in the object options or within the scriptFilePath, the last occurance of an optional value takes precedence over earlier occurance.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Error invalid parameters&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The work id is unknown&quot; [109])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.getJobInfo</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.getJobInfo</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets information on a job from its id</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.getJobInfo</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>jobId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Job <parameter>jobInfos</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting information about a specific job. It can return the job's status, for example.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which  the job is running.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The id of the job .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobInfos</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The resulting information on the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.getJobProgress</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.getJobProgress</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets the progression status of jobs</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listProgress=VISHNU.getJobProgress</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ProgressOptions <parameter>options = ProgressOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting the progression status of a job based on the wall-clock time specified.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine to get the jobs progression.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listProgress</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Is the object containing jobs progression information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is an object containing the available options jobs for progression.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listQueues</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listQueues</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets queues information</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listofQueues=VISHNU.listQueues</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>queueName = string()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command displays the status of the queues of a specific machine's batch scheduler.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine that the user wants to list queues.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listofQueues</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The list of queues.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>queueName</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. If it is given, listQueues gives information only of this queue.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listJobs</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listJobs</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets a list of all submitted jobs on a machine.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listOfJobs=VISHNU.listJobs</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ListJobsOptions <parameter>options = ListJobsOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows displaying the jobs submitted on a specific machine's batch scheduler. If machine identifier is equal to all, submitted jobs on all machines are listed</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which  the jobs are running.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listOfJobs</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The constructed object list of jobs.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Additional options for jobs listing.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.getJobOutput</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.getJobOutput</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets standard output and error output files of a job given its id</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.getJobOutput</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>jobId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>JobResult <parameter>outputInfo</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>outDir = string()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting a job's output files.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Gets outputPath and errorPath of a job from its id.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The Id of the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>outputInfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The  Job object  containing the job output information (ex: outputPath and errorPath) of the job to submit.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>outDir</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The output directory where the files will be stored (default is current directory).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The job is not terminated&quot; [107])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The job is already downloaded&quot; [108])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.getCompletedJobsOutput</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.getCompletedJobsOutput</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets standard output and error output files of completed jobs (applies only once for each job)</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, listOfResults=VISHNU.getCompletedJobsOutput</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>outDir = string()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command allows getting the output files of all the completed jobs.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which  the jobs are been submitted.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>listOfResults</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Is the list of jobs results.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>outDir</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Specifies the output directory where the files will be stored (by default, the current directory).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.cancelJob</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.cancelJob</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to cancel a job submitted on a given machine.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.cancelJob</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>jobId</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>cancels a job from its id. If job id is equal to all, all submitted jobs by all users will be cancelled if the user is an administrator, and only jobs submitted by the user will be cancelled if the user is not an administrator.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Is the id of the machine on which  the job is running.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>jobId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The Id of the job.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The job is already terminated&quot; [105])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The job is already canceled&quot; [106])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.addWork</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.addWork</refname>
        <refpurpose>Allows to create a work consisting in running jobs.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.addWork</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>Work <parameter>work</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>AddWorkOptions <parameter>option = AddWorkOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This command adds a work in vishnu</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>work</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The work to add.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>option</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Options to add the work.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database connection)&quot; [3])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (System)&quot; [4])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (SSH error)&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Error invalid parameters&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The sessionKey is expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler type is unknown&quot; [101])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;The batch scheduler indicates an error&quot; [102])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>TMSVishnuException(&quot;Permission denied&quot; [104])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>FMS Python API Reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.touch</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.touch</refname>
        <refpurpose>creates  files on  remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.touch</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Creates an empty file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file to create following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.mkdir</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.mkdir</refname>
        <refpurpose>creates directories on remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.mkdir</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>CreateDirOptions <parameter>options = CreateDirOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Creates an new directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  directory to create following the pattern  [host:]directory path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The create directory command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.rm</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.rm</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes files from  remote hosts.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.rm</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>RmFileOptions <parameter>options = RmFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Deletes a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file to remove following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The remove command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.rmdir</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.rmdir</refname>
        <refpurpose>removes  directories (and subdirectories) from  remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.rmdir</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Deletes a directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  directory to remove following the pattern  [host:]directory path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.chgrp</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.chgrp</refname>
        <refpurpose>changes group owner of  remote files/directories. </refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.chgrp</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>group</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Changes the group attribute of a file or directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>group</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The new group owner of file/directory.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file/directory following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.chmod</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.chmod</refname>
        <refpurpose>changes  access rights of remote files/directories.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.chmod</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>mode_t <parameter>mode</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Changes the permissions of a file or directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
The mode parameter is the same value as for the unix chmod command.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>mode</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument.  the access rigths of file/directory in octal system.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file/directory following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.head</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.head</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays a few first lines of  files located on  remote machines.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, fileContent=VISHNU.head</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>HeadOfFileOptions <parameter>options = HeadOfFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the first lines of a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file  following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileContent</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The first &quot;nLine&quot; lines of the file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  head commandoptions.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileContent(string)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The first &quot;nLine&quot; lines of the file</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.tail</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.tail</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays a few last lines of  files located on remote machines</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, fileContent=VISHNU.tail</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>TailOfFileOptions <parameter>options = TailOfFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the last lines of a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file  following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileContent</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The last &quot;nLine&quot; lines of the file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The tail command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileContent(string)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The last &quot;nLine&quot; lines of the file</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.more</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.more</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays content  of  files located on remote machines</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, fileContent=VISHNU.more</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the content of a file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  file to display following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileContent</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The content of the file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileContent(string)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>The content of the file</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.ls</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.ls</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays  the content of a remote directory</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, dirContent=VISHNU.ls</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>LsDirOptions <parameter>options</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the content of a directory at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  directory to list following the pattern  [host:]directory path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dirContent</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The content of the directory.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. List of options for the ls command.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.cp</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.cp</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes a synchronous copy of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.cp</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>src</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>dest</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>CpFileOptions <parameter>options = CpFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Copy a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local copy cannot be handled by this command.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>src</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  source file to copy following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dest</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path of the destination file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The copy options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.acp</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.acp</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes an asynchronous copy of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.acp</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>src</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>dest</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>FileTransfer <parameter>transferInfo</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>CpFileOptions <parameter>options</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Initiates a copy of a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local copy cannot be handled by this command.
The command listFileTransfers can be used to check the status of the transfer after it is initiated, using the transfer id as the identifier.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>src</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The source file to copy following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dest</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path of the destination file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>transferInfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. A file tranfer identifier (allowing for instance  to ckeck the status of a file transfer, or to cancel it).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The copy options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.mv</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.mv</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes a synchronous move of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.mv</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>src</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>dest</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>CpFileOptions <parameter>options</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Move a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local move cannot be handled by this command.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>src</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The  source file to move following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dest</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path of the destination file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The move command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.amv</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.amv</refname>
        <refpurpose>executes an asynchronous move of file.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.amv</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>src</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>dest</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>FileTransfer <parameter>transferInfo</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>CpFileOptions <parameter>options = CpFileOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Initiates a move of a file or directory from the location given by the src parameter to the location given by the dest parameter.
The src parameter must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command) or 'path' only if the file is on the local system.
The dest parameter must be provided in a similar way. Note that one of the two locations at least must be a remote location,
i.e. a local move cannot be handled by this command.
The command listFileTransfers can be used to check the status of the transfer after it is initiated, using the transfer id as the identifier.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>src</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The source file to move following the pattern  [host:]file path.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>dest</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The path of the destination file.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>transferInfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. A file tranfer identifier (allowing for instance  to ckeck the status of a file transfer, or to cancel it).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The transfer command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.stopFileTransfer</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.stopFileTransfer</refname>
        <refpurpose>stops an execution of a set of file transfers.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.stopFileTransfer</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>StopTransferOptions <parameter>options = StopTransferOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Cancels a file or directory transfer that has been initiated using a vishnu asynchronous copy or move file command.
The command listFileTransfers can be used to check the status of the transfer after it has been cancelled, using the transfer id as the identifier.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The stop file transfer command options.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.listFileTransfers</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.listFileTransfers</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the history of all file transfers submitted by User.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, fileTransferList=VISHNU.listFileTransfers</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>LsTransferOptions <parameter>options = LsTransferOptions()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Get the list of all file or directory transfers that have been initiated 
using a vishnu synchronous or asynchronous copy or move file command.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>fileTransferList</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The file transfer list.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The filter options  .</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The userId is unknown&quot; [21])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.stat</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.stat</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the information  of  files.</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.stat</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>FileStat <parameter>filesinfo</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Get the details of a remote file at the location given by the path parameter.
The path must be provided in the form 'machine_id:path' (the machine_id
values can be obtained using the vishnu_list_machine command).
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>path</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The file whose inode information will be displayed.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>filesinfo</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The  inode information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Service bus failure)&quot; [1])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Vishnu not available (Database error)&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Internal Error: Undefined exception&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;an option or a parameter provided is invalid for this service&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;Undefined configuration parameter&quot; [12])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The user is not an administrator&quot; [25])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The machine id is unknown&quot; [32])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The local account  is unknown&quot; [38])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The path provided is invalid.&quot; [201])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;Runtime error&quot; [202])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>FMSVishnuException(&quot;The transfer id is unknown&quot; [203])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
  <reference>
    <title>IMS Python API Reference</title>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.exportCommands</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.exportCommands</refname>
        <refpurpose>exports all the commands made by a user during a session</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret=VISHNU.exportCommands</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>oldSessionId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>filename</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>ExportOp <parameter>options = ExportOp()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Exports all the VISHNU commands submitted during a completed session. This session must be in closed state.
The output of this command is a file containing a shell script. For safety reasons, the commands having a password for parameter are not exported
(for example the vishnu_connect and vishnu_change_password commands). This means the shell script must be run after opening
a session manually or by adding the vishnu_connect command to the script.
The access to other user's sessions is only permitted to administrators.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>oldSessionId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The id of the session to export (session has ended).</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>filename</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input/Output argument. The path of the output file containing the Vishnu shell commands.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Options which encapsulate the option for the export.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.getMetricCurrentValue</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.getMetricCurrentValue</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the current values of system metrics</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, metricValue=VISHNU.getMetricCurrentValue</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>CurMetricOp <parameter>options</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the current values of the monitored metrics on the system identified by the machineId argument : cpuload, free diskspace and free memory. 
The units of displayed values are percentages for cpuload and Megabytes (Mb) for diskspace and memory. The provided values are always standard integers (no float values).
Please note that retrieving these values uses some valuable system ressources and should not occur too frequently to avoid an impact on system performance.
</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The id of the machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>metricValue</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Value of the metric.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The options for the current metric value.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.getMetricHistory</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.getMetricHistory</refname>
        <refpurpose>displays the history of values of a system metric</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, metricValues=VISHNU.getMetricHistory</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>string <parameter>machineId</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>MetricHistOp <parameter>options = MetricHistOp()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>Displays the chronological list of values of the metrics on the system identified by the machineId argument. Using the options it is possible to specify a type of metric and the starting and ending dates of the desired monitoring period. Note that some data will be available only if the required VISHNU agent (IMS server) has been running locally on the machine during the specified period.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>machineId</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The id of the machine.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>metricValues</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. List of metric values.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The optional fields for the metric history.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.getUpdateFrequency</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.getUpdateFrequency</refname>
        <refpurpose>gets the update frequency of the IMS database</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, freq=VISHNU.getUpdateFrequency</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This function allows a user to get the update frequency, to know  how often the state of the machines is automatically polled to get historical data.</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>freq</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. Frequency the data are updated, in second.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>freq(int)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Frequency the data are updated, in second</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
    <refentry>
      <refmeta>
        <refentrytitle>VISHNU.getSystemInfo</refentrytitle>
        <manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
      </refmeta>
      <refnamediv>
        <refname>VISHNU.getSystemInfo</refname>
        <refpurpose>To get the system info on a machine</refpurpose>
      </refnamediv>
      <refsynopsisdiv>
        <funcsynopsis><funcprototype><funcdef><function>ret, res=VISHNU.getSystemInfo</function></funcdef><paramdef>string <parameter>sessionKey</parameter></paramdef><paramdef>SysInfoOp <parameter>options = SysInfoOp()</parameter></paramdef></funcprototype></funcsynopsis>
      </refsynopsisdiv>
      <refsect1 id="description">
        <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
        <para>This function allows a user to get system information about a machine. A system information describes a machine. The option is  the machine id (if no machine id, the information for all the machines are given)</para>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="arguments">
        <title>ARGUMENTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>sessionKey</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. The session key.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>res</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output argument. The list of the system information gotten.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>options</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Input argument. Optional field for system information.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="returned objects">
        <title>RETURNED OBJECTS</title>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term><emphasis>errorCode (integer)</emphasis></term>
            <listitem>
              <para>Output parameter. Contains 0 on success and the error code on failure.</para>
            </listitem>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry/>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
      <refsect1 id="exceptions">
        <title>EXCEPTIONS</title>
        <para>The following exceptions may be thrown: </para>
        <variablelist>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;The database generated an error&quot; [2])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>SystemException(&quot;Undefined error code&quot; [9])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UserException(&quot;If a parameter is invalid&quot; [10])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key is unrecognized.&quot; [28])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
          <varlistentry>
            <term>UMSVishnuException(&quot;The session key has expired. The session is closed.&quot; [29])</term>
            <listitem/>
          </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>
      </refsect1>
    </refentry>
  </reference>
</book>