<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<book
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <info>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Benjamin</firstname>
        <surname>Isnard</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Daouda</firstname>
        <surname>Traoré</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Eugène</firstname>
        <surname>Pamba Capo-Chichi</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Kevin</firstname>
        <surname>Coulomb</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <firstname>Ibrahima</firstname>
        <surname>Cissé</surname>
      </personname>
    </author>
    <title> VISHNU User Manual for Command Line Interface</title>
          
    <revhistory>
	<revision>
	  <revnumber>1</revnumber>
	  <date>25/02/2011</date>
	  <authorinitials>SysFera</authorinitials>
	  <revdescription>
	      
	    <para> The first version of the VISHNU user manual concerning only the UMS package.</para></revdescription>
	</revision>
      </revhistory>
    
  </info>
  
  <chapter>
    <title>Introduction</title>
   <section>
     <title>Presentation</title>
     This documents is a quick start guide of VISHNU software for users. The main objective of this document is to describe 
     the installation procedure of VISHNU software and the way to use it. This presentation is divided into four parts:
     
     <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para> Installation procedure </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para> Software purpose </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
	  <para> Sofware usage description </para> 
        </listitem>
	<listitem>
          <para> Advanced functions </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
   </section>
   
   <section>
     <title> Installation procedure </title>
     Detail the installation process, including computer requirements. Provide requirements before the main installation procedure so 
     users can prepare their computer.
     Include even the most basic steps for computer beginners. 
     These steps may include "double-clicking the installation file" or "insert the CD into the CD-ROM drive."
     Typical installation steps involve explaining installation options, such as a typical installation versus an advanced installation.
   </section>
   
   <section>
     <title> Software purpose </title>
     Provide a detailed description of the software's purpose. Include what a user needs the software for and how they can benefit. 
     For instance, if the software deals with accounting, explain common accounting tasks that the software makes easier.
   </section>
   
   <section>
     <title> Sofware usage description </title>
     Explain how to use VISHNU. How to make a connection with VISHNU system. Describe here a session, session key session id etc
   </section>
   
   <section>
     <title> Advanced functions </title>
   </section>
   
 </chapter>

  
  
</book>